Health Care Administration
(HCA)
HCA-240: Health Care Accounting and Billing 4 credits
This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of
finance, accounting, and budgeting within the context of the
health care industry. Students examine the various business units,
roles, and structures involved in health care planning, budgeting,
and accounting. Financial measurements and data analytics for
managing costs and productivity are also explored.
HCA-255: Health Care Policy and Economic
Analysis
4 credits
This course offers a broad overview of health care policy and the
impact of government legislation on health care delivery.
Students explore ways that economic forces, political trends, and
changing social priorities influence policy development that
directly impacts health care access, cost, and quality.
HCA-360: Health Information Technology
and Management
4 credits
This course provides information and skills the health care
administrator will require to integrate information technology and
systems within the health care environment. Students examine
basic components and functions of health care management
information systems (HMIS) that work to manage data and
resources which influence point-of-care decision-making by
providers. Issues surrounding privacy, security, efficiency, and
effectiveness of health care operations are also explored.
HCA-450҂
: Quality in Health Care 4 credits
This course focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary to
achieve quality outcomes in patient care. Through analysis and
interpretation of quality and performance data, students develop
strategies for quality improvement. Emphasis is placed on
performance management tools, patient safety protocols, and
process controls to ensure both quality and efficiency.
HCA-450HN҂
: Quality in Health Care 4 credits
This course focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary to
achieve quality outcomes in patient care. Through analysis and
interpretation of quality and performance data, students develop
strategies for quality improvement. Emphasis is placed on
performance management tools, patient safety protocols, and
process controls to ensure both quality and efficiency.
HCA-455҂
: Organizational Behavior and
Leadership in Health Care
4 credits
This course introduces students to behavioral science concepts, as
they apply to organizational structure, process, and function.
Students explore the manager's role in relation to motivating
teams and developing strategies for improving operational
workflow and efficiencies. Effective communication,
collaboration, negotiation, conflict resolution, and decisionmaking are emphasized.
HCA-455HN҂
: Organizational Behavior and
Leadership in Health Care
4 credits
This course introduces students to behavioral science concepts, as
they apply to organizational structure, process and function.
Students explore the manager’s role in relation to motivating
teams and developing strategies for improving operational
workflow and efficiencies. Effective communication,
collaboration, negotiation, conflict resolution and decisionmaking are emphasized.
HCA-460҂
: Operations and Risk Management
in Health Care
4 credits
This course introduces students to the roles of local, state, and
federal regulatory agencies and accrediting bodies; the
enforcement of federal guidelines, standards, and regulations; and
the issues and demands of the regulatory environment that affect
health care in the United States. Students explore the legal
responsibility of providers and agencies to provide a safe
environment while delivering health care services.
HCA-460HN҂
: Operations and Risk Management
in Health Care
4 credits
This course introduces students to the roles of local, state, and
federal regulatory agencies and accrediting bodies; the
enforcement of federal guidelines, standards, and regulations; and
the issues and demands of the regulatory environment that affect
health care in the United States. Students explore the legal
responsibility of providers and agencies to provide a safe
environment while delivering health care services.
HCA-465: Health Care Administration and
Management
4 credits
This course introduces students to the management of human
resources, with particular focus on resource decision making in
health care environments. Students explore job market analysis,
talent recruitment, training and development, revenue recovery
efforts through retention initiatives, diversity training, and
technology readiness. Students demonstrate health care
management skills by utilizing tools used to manage staffing and
work productivity.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 370 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HCA-470∆҂: Strategic Planning and
Implementation in Health Care
4 credits
This writing-intensive course introduces students to key business
functions that drive strategic planning. Models for developing,
implementing, and evaluating effective programs across varied
health care settings are explored along with the principles of
merger, acquisition, reorganization, and joint venture. Students
apply tools utilized in strategic management of health care
programs such as balanced score cards, LEAN, and Six Sigma.
HCA470HN∆҂:
Strategic Planning and
Implementation in Health Care
4 credits
This writing intensive course introduces students to key business
functions that drive strategic planning. Models for developing,
implementing, and evaluating effective programs across varied
health care settings are explored along with the principles of
merger, acquisition, reorganization, and joint venture. Students
apply tools utilized in strategic management of health care
programs such as balanced score cards, LEAN, and Six Sigma.
HCA-515: Analysis of Contemporary Health
Care Delivery Models
4 credits
This course allows learners to develop a comprehensive
understanding of contemporary health care models from
financial, economic, quality, access, and disparity perspectives,
and to relate the ethical, cultural, political, and financial factors
that drive and support them. It is from this broad, integrative, and
comparative perspective that learners begin defining their role
and perspective as administrators within the health care system.
Learners begin to investigate their options and define their
potential to serve as leaders of systematic improvement, within
their health care discipline, based on changes in these driving
factors.
HCA-530: Health Care Policies and
Economics
4 credits
This course focuses on health care economics and policy. The
core principles of health economics are studied, and students
begin to explore practical financial-analysis skills that have
immediate application within the health care industry. Students
also study managerial decision-making processes based on cost,
service, and other economic variables as well as how those
decisions influence outcomes. Students will investigate health
care policy and reform to understand the impact it makes on
everyday practices of health care organizations.
HCA-540: Health Care Research Methods,
Analysis, and Utilization
4 credits
This course focuses on the critical analysis of health care research
and its application to the administration and delivery of health
care services. Emphasis is placed on strategies to access current
and relevant data, synthesize the information, and translate new
knowledge into practice. Learners are introduced to concepts of
measurement, reliability, and validity, as well as ethical issues in
the design and conduct of research through an evaluative process
of health care initiatives and projects.
HCA-545: Organizational Structure,
Dynamics, and Effectiveness
4 credits
This course focuses on the analysis of health care organizational
structure and effectiveness. Topics include the distributive
leadership model, decision making through collaboration and
teamwork, and the integrative analysis of how change impacts
other components of the system.
HCA-610: Essential Health Care Business
Analysis
4 credits
This course focuses on the critical analyses of health care
business operations and performance. Topics include analysis of
financial performance, operational process analysis, and quality
of service evaluation.
HCA-615: Human Resource Management and
Marketing Communication
Strategies
4 credits
This course focuses on essential managerial communication
skills. Human resource topics include conflict management,
negotiation, mediation, and coaching, as well as change
management principles and the types of communication required
for paradigm modification. Interdepartmental, cross-discipline,
and external partner marketing topics are included. Consumer
communication and collaboration techniques are also discussed.
HCA-616: Networking and Professional
Readiness
2 credits
This course is designed to prepare students to meet the
professional standards of practice related to their future discipline
within the industry. Emphasis is placed on critical thinking,
utilization of resources, communication strategies, and goal
setting. Students prepare a professional portfolio and resume.
Students apply various networking techniques and practical
interview skills to ensure professional readiness for their chosen
health care careers.
HCA-620: Business/Project Plan Evaluation
and Development
4 credits
The focus of this course is to begin integrating all previous study
and to identify the focus of students' final capstone project.
Students evaluate and integrate the methodologies,
considerations, and strategies for project or program design,
planning, implementation, and evaluation that are relevant or
specifically required by their specific health care discipline.
Topics of investigation and consideration include (but are not
limited to) financial and economic impact; resource allocation;
competition; public and private educational requirements;
availability of information technology; impact assessment of
change; process improvement assessment; social, behavioral, and
environmental impact; legal/ethical issues; and any other factors
that impact the provision of care or subsequent outcomes within
an organization and community. A collaborative group project
approach is emphasized to enhance contribution and
consideration from diverse experiences within the health care
field. Prerequisite: HLT-610, HCA-610, or HIM-650.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 371 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HCA-650: Evidence-Based Research Project 4 credits
This capstone course provides an opportunity for learners to
complete the development of a comprehensive evidence-based
project, plan, or proposal that addresses a problem, issue, or
concern in their professional practice and can be implemented
upon completion of the program. Projects address a problem
amenable to research-based intervention; include a relevant and
comprehensive literature review; propose a solution; and include
a fully developed program, project, or business plan. The project
also contains all the necessary information to implement the
proposed solution, evaluate its outcome(s), and disseminate the
findings. Prerequisite: Successful completion of all courses in the
program except HCA-670.
HCA-670: Health Care Administration
Practicum
4 credits
This course promotes the synthesis and application of knowledge
and skills from the Master of Health Administration (MS-HA)
program. Learners identify a mentor and develop a relationship
through which they examine the connection between theory and
practice. Learners engage in leadership and administrative
activities (e.g., committees, projects, staff education, and quality
improvement) and, through reflection and writing, analyze and
evaluate leadership behaviors and processes. Practicum/field
experience hours: 150. Prerequisite: Successful completion of all
previous coursework in the program.
HCA-675: Health Care Innovation 4 credits
This course provides an opportunity for students to envision the
best possible future for the American health care system, and to
understand what changes are necessary to achieve it. By focusing
on and developing a set of recommendations for improving
American health care, students appreciate the difference between
forcing a current system to work harder, and redesigning a
system in order to achieve desired outcomes. Students learn how
transactional leaders can become transformational leaders, and
begin the formal process of preparing for their capstone research
project. Students gain understanding of how clinical data,
knowledge, and practice are driving the development of health
care surveillance systems through informatics. Topics of
investigation include the role of informatics in improved patient
care and research, organization and national bio-surveillance, and
clinical decision support. Consideration is given to legal and
regulatory issues in private and public health practice and as they
apply to public health security and preparedness in response to
bioterrorism and disasters. Prerequisite: HCA-620.
HCA-680: Leadership in Health Care 4 credits
In this course, students learn key leadership principles and skills
critical to their development as health care professionals capable
of leading change initiatives that align with the strategic vision of
health care organizations and the evolving landscape of health
care. Students assess their own leadership qualities, an
organization's readiness for change, and barriers that may affect
the adoption of innovations and quality improvement processes.
The course emphasizes systems thinking while students work
toward honing problem-solving, teamwork, and communication
skills necessary for leading initiatives within health care
organizations.
HCA-699Ω: Evidence-Based Research Project 4 credits
This capstone course provides an opportunity for learners to
complete the development of a comprehensive evidence-based
project, plan, or proposal that addresses a problem, issue, or
concern in their professional practice and can be implemented
upon completion of the program. Projects address a problem
amenable to research-based intervention; include a relevant and
comprehensive literature review; propose a solution; and include
a fully developed program, project, or business plan. The project
also contains all the necessary information to implement the
proposed solution, evaluate its outcome(s), and disseminate the
findings. Prerequisite: HCA-675.
HCA-807: Structures and Governance in
Health Care
3 credits
This course provides learners with an overview of the various
governance structures in the health care industry and their
connections with leadership. Public, private, non-profit, and forprofit governance structures are examined. Public and private
reimbursement options are reviewed. Prerequisite: RES-811 or
RES-850.
HCA-812: Health Care Regulation 3 credits
This course provides an overview of many levels of regulation in
the health care industry. These include state boards, medical
boards, professional boards, and the federal government. Various
organizational and self-regulatory measures are presented, and
the impact of mandatory and voluntary measures are discussed.
Prerequisite: RES-850.
HCA-817: Professional Development and
Leadership in Health Care
3 credits
The course explores the connection between leadership and
professional development with a focus on assisting employees in
achieving personal potential. The course promotes creating a
culture of shared values and ownership to promote a standard of
organizational excellence. Prerequisite: RES-861.
HCA-822: Building a Culture of Community
in Health Care
3 credits
The course discusses the importance of assessing the current
culture of an organization as well as how the concept of
collaboration is employed as a means for building a culture of
community in health care. Systems thinking and interprofessional teaming are presented as strategies for building a
collaborative community.
HCA-827: Sustainability of Health Care
Organizations
3 credits
The course addresses how continuous improvement guides
organizations to promote change and innovation as a means of
being viable and sustainable. Prerequisite: RES-866.
Health Informatics (HCI)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 372 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HCI-600: Foundations of Informatics 4 credits
This course introduces fundamentals of the U.S. health care
system and the role and value of informatics in the practice of
evidence-based research and medicine. Students learn key
concepts of health care information infrastructure, systems,
technologies, applications, and data standards that are critical for
optimizing patient care. Students also examine how health care
providers and caregivers use technology, information, and
knowledge to improve patient care, administration, research, and
education across the rapidly evolving health care system.
HCI-655: Electronic Health Records 4 credits
This course prepares learners to evaluate, implement, and
optimize electronic health record (EHR) technology to support
the management and use of clinical data. Learners examine the
architecture of EHRs and analyze the challenges of their design
and use, including system integration requirements, distributed
user bases, storage of complex data, high security requirements,
and the diverse information needs of various end users. Learners
also apply project management techniques to the planning and
implementation of EHRs. Prerequisite: HIM-650.
HCI-660: Health Data Analytics 4 credits
This course introduces techniques for extracting data and creating
knowledge from health care data sets. Learners examine methods
for describing, summarizing, and presenting data. There is
specific focus on understanding the needs of information users,
identifying organizational objectives, and ensuring that the
analytical methodology chosen meets those needs. Prerequisite:
HIM-650.
HCI-665: Health Information Systems
Security
4 credits
This course examines the security, privacy, and compliance
issues that guide the design and use of health information systems
and health care data. Learners analyze the regulatory
environment and differentiate the regulations, laws, and ethical
practices that guide information governance and the uses of data
with particular emphasis on patient confidentiality and privacy.
Information security tools and strategies for risk assessment,
third-party risk management, and audits are also examined.
Prerequisite: HIM-615.
HCI-670: User Interface Design for
Informatics
4 credits
In this course, learners apply principles of human factors
engineering to the design of optimal user interfaces that improve
clinical processes. Learners examine clinical decision support and
clinical workflow analysis, modeling, reducing data entry errors,
and usability testing in efforts to improve the experience of end
users while prioritizing patient safety and the delivery of quality
health care.
HCI-690: Health Informatics Applied Project
and Practicum
4 credits
This course provides learners the opportunity to integrate what
they have learned in the program in an applied project related to a
major area of health informatics, such as health information
management, information systems, or health informatics.
Learners are expected to demonstrate leadership and advanced
critical-thinking and problem-solving skills in the development of
a comprehensive and professional project plan and solution that
is grounded in current informatics research and methods.
Practicum/field experience hours: 150. Prerequisite: Successful
completion of all previous coursework in the program.
Hebrew (HEB)
HEB-101: Elementary Biblical Hebrew 4 credits
This course is designed to teach students to read biblical Hebrew.
It is an introduction to the language of the Hebrew Bible. It
focuses on the vocabulary, grammar, and cultural aspects of
biblical Hebrew with a goal of translation at a beginning level.
Students translate the book of Ruth.
HEB-102: Elementary Hebrew Exegesis 4 credits
This course is a continuation of HEB-101. Students continue
translating sections of the Hebrew Bible at a basic level focusing
on such books as Genesis, Amos, and the poetical books.
Prerequisite: HEB-101.
HEB-501: Elementary Hebrew I 4 credits
This course introduces biblical Hebrew with a focus on grammar,
syntax, vocabulary, and the use of linguistic tools for the
translation and interpretation of selected passages.
Health Care Informatics (HIM)
HIM-200҂
: Principles and Practices of Health
Information Management
4 credits
This course surveys the field of health information management.
Students investigate potential career paths and learn the
fundamental medical, legal, ethical, and professional issues and
standards affecting the field. The course also includes an
overview of the health care industry, hospital operations, and
electronic health records and documentation standards and
practices.
HIM-200HN҂
: Principles and Practices of Health
Information Management
4 credits
This course surveys the field of health information management.
Students investigate potential career paths and learn the
fundamental medical, legal, ethical, and professional issues and
standards affecting the field. The course also includes an
overview of the health care industry, hospital operations, and
electronic health records and documentation standards and
practices.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 373 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HIM-310҂
: Clinical Data Classification 4 credits
This course introduces the functions and relationships between
health care classification systems, vocabularies, terminologies,
and standards required for the privacy, security, storage,
utilization, and standardization of clinical data. Students
differentiate systems for clinical classification and coding as well
as for various health information exchange models. Prerequisites:
BIO-192, BIO-192L, and HIM-200.
HIM-350: Classification of Diagnostic Data 4 credits
This course introduces the principles of and industry guidelines
for diagnostic classification systems in health care settings. Focus
is on the application of classification systems in health care
facilities. Students examine types of diagnostic classification
systems and coding guidelines as well as practice coding.
Prerequisites: BIO-330 and HIM-310.
HIM-355: Classification of Procedural Data 4 credits
This course introduces the principles and industry guidelines for
procedural classification systems in health care settings. Focus is
on the application of classification systems in health care
facilities. Students examine types of procedural classification
systems and coding guidelines as well as practice coding.
Prerequisites: BIO-330 and HIM-310.
HIM-370҂
: Health Care Information Systems 4 credits
In this course students evaluate health information systems
architecture and data storage design and apply concepts of the
systems design life cycle in order to facilitate the use of
information assets to meet strategic goals and objectives within
health care organizations. Students also assess information
systems to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and
examine information security measures including performing
risks assessments, data protection, and recovery procedures.
Prerequisite: HIM-310.
HIM-370HN҂
: Health Care Information Systems 4 credits
In this course students evaluate health information systems
architecture and data storage design and apply concepts of the
systems design life cycle in order to facilitate the use of
information assets to meet strategic goals and objectives within
health care organizations. Students also assess information
systems to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and
examine information security measures including performing
risks assessments, data protection, and recovery procedures.
Prerequisite: HIM-310.
HIM-410: Fundamentals of Health Care
Informatics Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course examines the history, application, impact, and future
need for informatics in health care. Emphasis is placed on
standards, processes, and systems that impact areas of evidencebased medicine, administrative and clinical practices, information
infrastructure, security, and electronic health records. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on initial
exposure to the computer systems, software tools, and processes
used in health care informatics Prerequisites: BIO-181, BIO181L, ITT-200, CST-217, and CST-307.
HIM-412: Health Care Information Systems
and Technology Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course examines the application of information systems in
health care settings, beginning with an analysis of the broad
meaning and nature of information and systems. The focus
narrows to utilization of computer technologies, configurations,
and applications as tools to benefit health care environments.
Emphasis is placed on the challenges related to the development
and implementation of effective information systems in light of a
rapidly and continuously changing health care model, evolution
of technology team member roles and responsibilities, and
advancement of technological requirements within the health care
system. The laboratory reinforces and expands learning of
principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on
interacting with health care information systems, security tools
and protocols, and cross-industry interoperability. Prerequisites:
ITT-200, CST-217, and CST-307.
HIM-415҂
: Clinical Data Management 4 credits
This course focuses on the management and integration of health
care data within health care organizations for ensuring the
accuracy and accessibility of data used for reimbursement and in
the revenue cycle. Students examine health care informatics
standards and apply processes and techniques for collecting and
reporting data to meet enterprise needs and for supporting clinical
documentation and quality improvement initiatives. Prerequisites:
HIM-350, HIM-355, and HIM-370.
HIM-415HN҂
: Clinical Data Management 4 credits
This course focuses on the management and integration of health
care data within health care organizations for ensuring the
accuracy and accessibility of data used for reimbursement and in
the revenue cycle. Students examine health care informatics
standards and apply processes and techniques for collecting and
reporting data to meet enterprise needs and for supporting clinical
documentation and quality improvement initiatives. Prerequisites:
HIM-350, HIM-355, and HIM-370.
HIM-425: Principles of Health Care
Administration and Leadership
4 credits
This course focuses on principles related to management and
administration of health information services with emphasis on
organizational culture, effective leadership and communication,
and financial management. Students assess organizational and
departmental needs, propose appropriate solutions, and apply
project management techniques to foster efficient use of
resources within health care organizations. Prerequisite: HIM200.
HIM-430∆
: Data Governance 4 credits
This writing-intensive course is a study of legal, ethical, and
regulatory principles and frameworks that guide data governance
within health care organizations. Students examine policy issues
and current laws related to uses of health information and
determine processes and organizational policies to effectively and
ethically manage data and personal health information.
Prerequisites: HIM-310 and HIM-370.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 374 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HIM-450: Health Care Data Management
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course examines health care information resources and their
impact on administrative functions, interfaces, data security and
integrity, and business processes. Topics include: use of
relational database management software to construct tables,
develop forms, create and execute queries, design and deploy
reports, and advance database concepts to automate
contemporary business processes. Students are able to distinguish
between various network hardware technologies and associated
data communication protocols in order to direct how
organizations design and implement data networks. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on building
SQL databases and performing basic CRUD operations: create
data, retrieve data, update data, and delete data. Prerequisites:
ITT-200, CST-217, and CST-307.
HIM-452: Quality Management in Health
Care
4 credits
In this course students apply quality assessment techniques,
quality management tools, and performance improvement
processes to recommend measures to improve quality and patient
care and safety. Students participate in clinical information
analysis through mining, exploring, and analyzing clinical data to
recognize trends that demonstrate quality, safety, and
effectiveness and identify best practices for the management of
health care information, systems, and quality to support
organizational decision making. Prerequisite: HIM-415.
HIM-484: Innovations in Health IT Lecture &
Lab
4 credits
This course provides students with a broad view of enabling
information technologies in the health-care related industries.
Students analyze how IT improves economy of scale, increases
efficiency, widens access to education and self-care, and
facilitates integration of local and cloud-based systems. Students
examine solutions using cross-disciplinary knowledge in the
health care ecosystem, including health economics, decision
support, operational effectiveness, automation, insurance
exchanges, and regulatory compliance. The laboratory reinforces
and expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture.
Hands-on activities focus on interaction with a variety of
systems, tools, simulators, and websites. Prerequisites: ITT-200,
CST-217, and CST-307.
HIM-490
Ω: Health Information Management
Capstone
4 credits
The capstone course provides students with the opportunity to
integrate and synthesize the knowledge and skills acquired
throughout their coursework in the health information
management program. Students complete an applied project that
demonstrates critical thinking and attainment of professional
health information management competencies. Practicum/field
experience hours: 80. Prerequisites: HLT-364, HIM-425, and
HIM-452.
HIM-515: Foundations and Concepts of
Health Care Informatics
4 credits
This course examines the history, application, impact, and future
need for informatics in health care. Emphasis is placed on
standards, processes, and systems that impact areas of evidencebased medicine, administrative and clinical practices, information
infrastructure, security, and electronic health records.
HIM-615: Health Care Information Systems
and Technology
4 credits
This course examines the application of information systems in
health care settings, beginning with an analysis of the broad
meaning and nature of information and systems. The focus
narrows to utilization of computer technologies, configurations,
and applications as tools to benefit health care environments.
Emphasis is placed on the challenges related to the development
and implementation of effective information systems in light of a
rapidly and continuously changing health care model, evolution
of technology team member roles and responsibilities, and
advancement of technological requirements within the health care
system.
HIM-650: Health Care Data Management 4 credits
This course examines health care information resources and their
impact on administrative functions, interfaces, data security and
integrity, and business processes. Topics include use of relational
database management software to construct tables, develop
forms, create and execute queries, design and deploy reports, and
advance database concepts to automate contemporary business
processes. Learners are able to distinguish between various
network hardware technologies and associated data
communications protocols in order to direct how organizations
design and implement data networks. Prerequisites: HIM-515,
HCI-600, or NUR-514; and HIM-615.
History/Social Science (HIS)
HIS-110: World History Themes 4 credits
This course surveys global civilizations from Africa and the
Americas to Eurasia as an overview of the principal cultural,
political, and economic themes that shaped world civilization.
HIS-144: U.S. History Themes 4 credits
This course provides an overview of the principal political,
economic, and cultural themes and constitutional developments
that shaped the United States from the Colonial period into the
20th Century.
HIS-231: American Military History 3 credits
On demand. A survey of the development of the American
military and militia system from its English origin through the
present. The principles of warfare and military leadership, the
soldier's experience on the battlefield, and the place of the
military within the American democracy are threads of continuity
woven by the instructor through the course. Prerequisite:
Instructor's approval.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 375 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HIS-255∆: Historical Research and Applied
Methods
4 credits
This writing intensive course focuses on research methods used
in historical research and writing, and application of theories and
methodologies to the analysis of historical materials. Emphasis is
placed on research, writing, and critical thinking in historical
contexts.
HIS-304: Methods of Teaching History in
Secondary Schools
4 credits
The goal of this course is to provide history teacher candidates
with the knowledge and skills needed to teach history in
secondary classrooms. Teacher candidates explore current
research–based pedagogical practices for teaching history,
connecting educational theory to specific innovative engagement
practices for diverse learning populations. History teacher
candidates also are given opportunities to design instruction that
engages secondary students in historical inquiry, examines
processes for selecting primary and secondary source historical
content, and uses authentic assessments to measure student
learning. Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint
clearance required.
HIS-306: Historians in Theory and Practice 4 credits
This course introduces the study of history as a scholarly
discipline, emphasizing significant historians, subdisciplines of
the field, and the foundational methodological and theoretical
tools of historians.
HIS-325: Ancient Mediterranean History 4 credits
This course examines the historical and cultural developments of
ancient worlds including Egypt, Greece, and Rome with an
emphasis on social, political, and economic developments.
HIS-327: Community History 4 credits
This course examines the techniques, sources, and methods of
collecting and presenting history at the local level. Emphasis is
placed on how communities create memory and historical
records, and their uses for students, educators, researchers, and
communities.
HIS-337: Material Culture and Museums 4 credits
This course provides a broad introduction to the field of material
culture and museum studies. Students use techniques of applied
history to learn from objects and study the way museums create
exhibits, conserve artifacts, and teach history through material
culture.
HIS-347: Historic Preservation 4 credits
This course provides a survey of historic preservation and
cultural resource management. Topics covered include the field's
history; methods, and practices through the methods of applied
history in environmental law and conservation; and current
practices in management of historic sites, structures, and
neighborhoods.
HIS-350: Survey of Asian Empires 4 credits
This course provides a historical survey of Asia, including India,
China, Southeast Asia, Korea, and Japan. Emphasis is placed on
political, economic, and social developments.
HIS-380҂: Renaissance and Reformation 4 credits
This course examines the intellectual and religious developments
of Europe between the 13th and 16th centuries including
Renaissance Italy and Reformation Germany with an emphasis
on social, political, and economic developments.
HIS-380HN҂: Renaissance and Reformation 4 credits
This course examines the intellectual and religious developments
of Europe between the 13th and 16th centuries including
Renaissance Italy and Reformation Germany with an emphasis
on social, political, and economic developments.
HIS-386∆: War and Revolution 4 credits
This writing intensive course examines the political, economic,
and social aspects of selected wars and revolutions. It provides a
comparative study of social conflicts with an emphasis on the
patterns of individual and collective action, violence, and social
changes.
HIS-387: Public History Seminar 4 credits
This course covers various topics in public history, which may
include archives and records management, historical
interpretation, cultural tourism, oral history, and other
fields/applications of history in public spheres.
HIS-426҂: 20th Century Europe 4 credits
This course examines the political, economic, and social
developments of European history in the 20th century from the
foundations of late 19th century unification through the struggles
of globalization and terrorism at the beginning of the 21st
century. Emphasis is placed on the impact of two world wars,
totalitarianism, the decline of empire and the Cold War.
HIS-426HN҂: 20th Century Europe 4 credits
This course examines the political, economic, and social
developments of European history in the 20th century from the
foundations of late 19th century unification through the struggles
of globalization and terrorism at the beginning of the 21st
century. Emphasis is placed on the impact of two world wars,
totalitarianism, the decline of empire and the Cold War.
HIS-450҂: U.S. History Since 1945 4 credits
This course examines the principal social, political, economic,
and global events that have shaped the American experience
during the Cold War era.
HIS-450HN҂: U.S. History Since 1945 4 credits
This course examines the principal social, political, economic,
and global events that have shaped the American experience
during the Cold War era.
HIS-463: Women in History 4 credits
This course compares the political, social, economic, and cultural
history of women in societies, focusing on contrasting
experiences of women across time, geographic regions, and
cultures.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 376 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HIS-466҂: Southwest Borderlands 4 credits
This course examines the political, social, economic, and cultural
history of the Southwest Borderlands region, focusing on topics
related to the American West, Native Americans,
frontier/colonial theory, environment, and Chicana/o history.
HIS-466HN҂: Southwest Borderlands 4 credits
This course examines the political, social, economic, and cultural
history of the Southwest Borderlands region, focusing on topics
related to the American West, Native Americans,
frontier/colonial theory, environment, and Chicana/o history.
HIS-477: Historical Administration 4 credits
This course provides a broad overview of careers for
administrators of museums, historical societies, archives, special
collection libraries, and other cultural resource agencies. The
course explores the role of an administrator as the head of an
organization or as a mid-level manager. Issues that are unique to
public or nonprofit agencies that collect, preserve, and share
cultural resources are also explored. Prerequisite: HIS-337 or
HIS-347.
HIS-510: Concepts in Understanding World
History
4 credits
This course examines world history as a set of thematic concepts,
highlighting the significant historiographical questions,
examples, and resources for study of historical global themes
such as population; economic networks; power, authority, and
government; class, race, and gender; cultural expression; science,
technology, and environment; and spiritual life and moral codes
HIS-530: Applied Studies in History
Graduate Education
4 credits
This course introduces students to applied studies in history.
Students have opportunities to engage in applied (public) history
practice with focus toward using these methods in the classroom.
Emphasis is placed on the resources and opportunities provided
by museums, historic places, and archives for teaching secondary
and postsecondary courses.
HIS-544: Concepts in Understanding U.S.
History
4 credits
This course examines U.S. history as a set of thematic concepts,
highlighting the significant historiographical questions,
examples, and resources for study of historical themes such as
migration and immigration; religious and philosophical thought;
the republic and democracy; industrialization, business, and
labor; prosperity and consumerism; reform movements and social
justice; and war and society in U.S. history.
HIS-555: Studies in the American West 4 credits
This course investigates the history of the American West as both
a region west of the Mississippi River, and an ideology that
shaped cultures, economics, and politics, from frontier to modern
America. Using historiography and applied research, students
examine the diverse cultures and dynamics that made the
American West a unique place in American history.
HIS-565: Historical Perspectives of Race,
Class, Gender, & Ethnicity
4 credits
This course explores historical perspectives of race, class, gender,
and ethnicity as lenses of stratification, identity, and experience
that shape the historical record. Through historiography and
applied research, students examine the contextual perspectives of
race, class, gender, and ethnicity that shape our understanding of
the past.
HIS-570: Graduate Research Seminar in
History
4 credits
This course prepares students for advanced research in history
with the intent on publication. Students will engage the resources,
methods, and problems of graduate-level research, investigate the
literature and historiography of topics in their area of interest, and
develop a plan for sustained research, publication, and
professional participation in their field of study.
Health Education (HLT)
HLT-205: Health Care Systems and
Transcultural Health Care
4 credits
This course introduces the student to organizational dynamics
and the complex structures of the U.S. health care system.
Students consider social, historical, and political influences that
have shaped the modern health system and examine the
mechanisms that enable access, delivery, and financing of health
services. This course also considers the ever-growing global
perspective of health care as students explore the health
perspectives of varied racial, ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic
groups.
HLT-302∆: Spirituality and Christian Values in
Health Care and Wellness
4 credits
This writing-intensive course explores the concepts of health,
wellness, and spirituality from the Christian perspective and as
they relate to the holistic needs of patients, providers, and health
care communities. Students reflect upon the concepts of healing
and the caregiver's role in meeting the spiritual needs of diverse
populations while seeking to advance health and wellness within
the context of a healing paradigm.
HLT-305: Legal and Ethical Principles in
Health Care
4 credits
This course introduces students to major ethical theories,
principles, and decision-making models that form the basis for
resolution of ethical dilemmas in the health care field. Guidelines
for legal and ethical practice are also examined from the context
of regulatory requirements established by accrediting and
certifying agencies.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 377 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HLT-306V: Advanced Patient Care 3 credits
This course offers an advanced approach to patient care, patient
education, and patient management within the health care facility
and the outpatient clinic. It considers more than the patients’
physical needs and addresses the patient as a part of the treatment
or diagnostic plan. Upon completion of the course, the student
should be able to demonstrate communication skills with
different patient populations, such as various cultures, religions,
ages, and levels of ability, to participate and discuss the
approaches the health care professional should use to best interact
with each of these groups.
HLT-307V: Professional Dynamics and Allied
Health Professions
3 credits
This course identifies allied health professionals and their
involvement with all aspects of health care delivery and the
collaborative health care team. This course also considers the role
and scope of allied health as well as the interdisciplinary
approach to care intended to meet the needs of a complex and
changing health care system.
HLT-308V: Risk Management and Health Care
Regulations
3 credits
This course introduces students to local, state, and federal statutes
that regulate the administration of safe health care. Students
explore the legal responsibilities of the health care facility in
providing workplace safety and protection from injury for
patients, families, and staff. The course examines the roles and
responsibilities of the risk management department within an
organization. At the end of this course, students should be able to
explain the ethical and legal responsibilities of health care
professionals related to risk management assessment and policies.
HLT-312V: Ethics for Health Care
Professionals
3 credits
This course introduces students to major ethical theory,
principles, and models for the recognition, analysis, and
resolution of ethical dilemmas in health care practice. Students
learn how to approach ethical dilemmas using theoretical
frameworks and decision-making processes. Through the use of
case studies, students are introduced to health topics such as
patients’ rights, dilemmas of life and death, allocation of health
care resources, and special dilemmas of health care professionals.
This course also includes a review of classic cases in health care
ethics and how they have shaped health policy. An overview of
patient education and ethics and a discussion on the professional
codes of ethics and standards are also part of this course.
HLT-313V: Safety, Quality, and
Interdisciplinary Approaches to
Care
3 credits
This course examines the relationship between health care quality
and organizational performance from an interdisciplinary
approach to care. The student is introduced to the rationale for
performance management and the role of the health care
organization in ensuring compliance with the standards of
accreditation. The methods for assuring quality in process and
outcome through management are addressed along with trends in
the provision and reimbursement of health care services. Students
are introduced to changing trends in reimbursement of health care
services as related to risk management.
HLT-314V: Health Care Systems 3 credits
This course provides an understanding of the factors shaping the
present and future health care delivery system. Students learn
about the aging population in the United States and ways in
which the health care system is planning and forecasting for the
upcoming needs of aging consumers. Additionally, shifting costs,
health care environments, and technological advancements are
examined for trends and potential areas of opportunity.
Innovative organizational models are explored and analyzed as
they continue to develop and shape the future of health care
delivery.
HLT-317V: Communication and Application of
Research in Practice
3 credits
This writing intensive course introduces students to the purpose
of research as applied in health care. Students examine the role of
various research methods, including evidence-based practice, in
communicating with patients and providers to improve health
care. Students identify and develop the skills necessary to
communicate effectively in the areas of interpersonal
communication, group dynamics, diversity, motivation, team
building, and conflict resolution.
HLT-324V: Transcultural Health Care 3 credits
This course explores meanings and expressions of health, illness,
caring, and healing transculturally. Focus is on understanding and
developing professional competence in caring for individuals,
families, groups, and communities with diverse cultural
backgrounds. Culture is examined as a pervasive, determining
“blueprint” for thought and action throughout the human health
experience. Patterns of human interaction that foster health and
quality of life are analyzed, and health destroying patterns of
interaction (e.g., stereotyping, discrimination, and
marginalization) are examined and submitted to moral and ethical
reflection.
HLT-362V: Applied Statistics for Health Care
Professionals
3 credits
This is an introductory course on concepts of statistics,
emphasizing applications to health care professions. The course
is designed to prepare learners to understand concepts of statistics
and the appropriateness of statistical methods used in published
research papers and a variety of settings. Areas of emphasis
include an introduction to the statistical analysis concepts of
variable/reliability factors; P values; experimental design;
descriptive statistics, including mean, median, and mode;
sampling methods; and power analysis.
HLT-364∆: Research and Communication
Techniques in Health Care and
Science
4 credits
This writing intensive course discusses the principles and
processes of research and common communication techniques
utilized in health care and science. This course allows students to
begin the research and preliminary background process necessary
to complete a research-based capstone project. Students conduct
a literature review, investigate appropriate research design,
explore data collection techniques, apply statistical analysis, and
practice professional writing skills. Prerequisite: BIO-365 or
MAT-274.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 378 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HLT-381: Contemporary Public Health Issues 1 credits
This course provides students an opportunity to explore and
analyze current public health issues affecting the nurse leader.
Public health nurse leaders are at the forefront of local and global
health care challenges and are dedicated to promoting and
protecting the health of populations. Students explore the
evolving roles of public health nurse leaders, including advocacy,
health education and promotion, and collaboration with agencies
and community members, in the context of current public health
issues. Students gain an understanding of the competencies that
prepare nurses to take leadership roles in the development of
community- or population-focused solutions to impact health and
illness patterns.
HLT-411: Global Health Issues 4 credits
This course introduces global health and health-related
challenges of developing and resource-limited nations and
explores the social, behavioral, economic, biomedical and
environmental determinants of health. This course will examine
the global epidemiology of major diseases and threats to the
populations of the world, and the current organizational
structures that have been established to respond. Topics include
communicable diseases, non-communicable diseases,
unintentional injury and violence, health promotion, reproductive
health, maternal and child health, and disaster preparedness.
Students will gain an understanding of the diverse determinants
associated with these diseases and issues, such as poverty,
education, gender imbalance, culture, and poor environmental
conditions. Global health involves many disciplines within and
beyond the health sciences and promotes inter-disciplinary
collaboration. This course will use a wide variety of perspectives
from disciplines such as epidemiology, biology, environment,
human rights, nursing, psychology, public policy, technology and
economics. Students will acquire an understanding of the interrelationships between socio-cultural-economic development and
health, and the impact of policy and health care delivery systems.
HLT-418V: Trends and Issues in Health Care 3 credits
The course explores the impact of numerous professional and
societal forces on health care policy and practice. Content
includes an analysis of current studies; health care policy and
position statements; political, environmental, and cultural issues;
and changing health care roles. The study of these issues
examines the impact on health care delivery systems in society.
HLT-485: Methods of Teaching Health and
Measuring in Exercise Science
4 credits
This course is a study of the methods and procedures of teaching
health. Resources, aids, and agencies are studied in an attempt to
determine how they may best assist the teacher. Practice teaching
is included. Tests and measurements in health, physical
education, and exercise science are presented. Emphasis is placed
on producing valid and reliable tests, data analysis techniques for
test evaluation, test construction assessment, and interpretation of
test results. Prerequisites: BIO-155 and BIO-155L.
HLT-490V∆Ω:Professional Capstone Project 3 credits
This writing-intensive course facilitates a professional capstone
project that is the culmination of the learning experience of
students in the Bachelor of Science in Health Care Sciences
program. In this course, students identify a current issue in health
care and provide a written proposal to address that issue.
Additionally, students use evidence-based research and apply
theory to practice. Students create an evidence-based project plan
and prepare to propose a full implementation plan to current or
future employers.
HLT-494∆
: Professional Capstone Project 4 credits
This writing-intensive course facilitates a professional capstone
project that is the culmination of the learning experiences of
students in the health care administration program. In this course,
students design a professional digital portfolio that documents
career readiness through the integration of knowledge, skills,
experience, and creative pursuits that prepare students for work in
in health care. In addition, students prepare a written proposal for
their evidence-based capstone project focusing on the resolution
of issues or problems significant to health care administration.
Upon completion, students present capstone projects to a
professional at a health care organization. Prerequisite: HCA470.
HLT-520: Legal and Ethical Principles in
Health Care
4 credits
This course focuses on the recognition, analysis, and resolution
of ethical dilemmas in health occupations. Students examine
legal liabilities involved in health care administration, including
workplace safety and a health care facility’s obligation to provide
protection from injury for patients, their families, and staff.
HLT-610: Networking and Professional
Readiness
2 credits
This course is designed to provide learners with the foundational
knowledge, skills, resources, and guidance to prepare for
professional health care standards related to their future discipline
within the industry. Emphasis is placed on critical thinking,
awareness and identification of resources, communication
strategies, and goal setting. Learners apply learned face-to-face
and electronic networking techniques and tactics to ensure
professional readiness along with gaining knowledge of
professional standards. Learners prepare a professional portfolio
and resume, and learn practical interviewing techniques to
prepare for entry into/advancement within their chosen
discipline-specific health care careers.
HLT-665Ω: Public Health Practicum 4 credits
The practicum course is designed to provide students an
opportunity to transition from theory to practice. The student
reinforces and integrates concepts, principles, and skills gained
during coursework that are essential to professional competency.
Students are required to complete a minimum of 150 hours of onsite work under close supervision of a faculty member and an onsite preceptor approved by the college or university.
Practicum/field experience hours: 150. Prerequisites: HLT-605
and a release by the college’s Office of Field Experience.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 379 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
Honors (HON)
HON-106B: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
ENGINEERING
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106C: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
CS/IT
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106D: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar -
CONHCP
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106E: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Education
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106F: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Business
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106G: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
COT
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during freshman year and
gives students the opportunity to gain more understanding of the
process of applying to graduate and medical programs.
Throughout this course, students conduct extensive review of the
graduate and medical school application process for their
respective careers, including understanding which specified exam
is relevant for their future program and methodology to help them
appropriately prepare. Additionally, students learn how to
compile application artifacts such as a personal statement,
resume, and letters of recommendation as well as prepare for the
graduate and medical school interview process. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106H: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Biology and Environmental Studies
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106I: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Fine Arts & Digital Arts
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106J: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Justice Studies, Government &
Humanities
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-106K: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Psychology, Sociology & Behavioral
Health
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 380 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HON-106L: Freshmen Symposium & Seminar –
Forensics
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during freshmen year and
builds upon the discussion of ethics, service, leadership,
multicultural awareness and innovative, accelerated thinking that
is discussed in other first-year courses in the honors program.
Students investigate real world problems, and brainstorm creative
solutions to make an impact on the local and global community.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-110: Honors Symposium 0 credits
The honors symposium takes place during the first year and
builds upon the topics of ethics, service, leadership, research,
cultural awareness, and innovative thinking that are discussed in
other first-year courses in the honors program. Students explore
their respective industry, investigate and discuss local and global
issues within that industry, and brainstorm and propose solutions
to real-world problems experienced within the industry. This
course further integrates professional development and guidance
into preparing students for a future career within their respective
industry. Prerequisite: Acceptance into Honors College.
HON-206: Sophomore Symposium on Service:
Human Connections
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during the sophomore year,
builds upon discussion regarding service from prior honors
courses and examines the idea of service through religious and
historical texts. This symposium examines the Great Questions as
they relate to the impact of service on the human condition.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-206B: Project Management Fellowship 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during sophomore year and
incorporates hands-on, mentored training experiences in various
fields of study. Students contribute directly to current projects,
business proposals, and project management experiences. This
symposium also incorporates basic project management skills.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-206C: Research & Design Program 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during sophomore year and
includes hands-on, mentored training experiences in each
science, engineering, and technology. Students are expected to
contribute directly to current research and design projects being
led by faculty while learning techniques and various
methodologies. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors
program.
HON-206D: Global Studies and Service 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during sophomore year and
builds upon local or global service among diverse populations,
study abroad, and mission trip experience. This symposium
investigates multicultural awareness, and includes a reflective
approach on integrated experiential learning, personal
development, disciplinary knowledge, and spiritual growth
through active, global involvement. Prerequisite: Acceptance into
the honors program.
HON-206E: Internship 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during sophomore year and
builds upon internship experience. This symposium explores
professional development, and includes a reflective approach on
integrated experiential learning, personal development, and
disciplinary knowledge through active involvement. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-206F: Career Planning and Professional
Development
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during sophomore year and
builds upon themes of career and professional development. This
symposium explores brand building, professional and leadership
development, effective communication, and developing a
professional portfolio for the workplace. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-206G: Graduate and Medical School
Preparation
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during sophomore and gives
students the opportunity to gain more understanding of the
process of applying to graduate and medical programs.
Throughout this course, students conduct extensive review of the
graduate and medical school application process for their
respective careers, including understanding which specified exam
is relevant for their future program and methodology to help them
appropriately prepare. Additionally, students learn how to
compile application artifacts such as a personal statement,
resume, and letters of recommendation as well as prepare for the
graduate and medical school interview process. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-306: Junior Symposium on Leadership:
The Last Shall Be First
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during the junior year,
examines the qualities of leadership through readings and
presentations and investigates the Great Questions as they relate
to the concept of leadership. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the
honors program.
HON-306B: Project Management Fellowship 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during junior year and
incorporates hands-on, mentored training experiences in various
fields of study. Students contribute directly to current projects,
business proposals, and project management experiences. This
symposium also incorporates basic project management skills.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-306C: Research & Design Program 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during junior year and
includes hands-on, mentored training experiences in each
science, engineering, and technology. Students are expected to
contribute directly to current research and design projects being
led by faculty while learning techniques and various
methodologies. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors
program.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 381 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HON-306D: Global Studies and Service 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during junior year and builds
upon local or global service among diverse populations, study
abroad, and mission trip experience. This symposium investigates
multicultural awareness, and includes a reflective approach on
integrated experiential learning, personal development,
disciplinary knowledge, and spiritual growth through active,
global involvement. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors
program.
HON-306E: Internship 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during junior year and builds
upon internship experience. This symposium explores
professional development, and includes a reflective approach on
integrated experiential learning, personal development, and
disciplinary knowledge through active involvement. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-306F: Career Planning and Professional
Development
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during junior year and builds
upon themes of career and professional development. This
symposium explores brand building, professional and leadership
development, effective communication, and developing a
professional portfolio for the workplace. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-306G: Graduate and Medical School
Preparation
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during junior year and gives
students the opportunity to gain more understanding of the
process of applying to graduate and medical programs.
Throughout this course, students conduct extensive review of the
graduate and medical school application process for their
respective careers, including understanding which specified exam
is relevant for their future program and methodology to help them
appropriately prepare. Additionally, students learn how to
compile application artifacts such as a personal statement,
resume, and letters of recommendation as well as prepare for the
graduate and medical school interview process. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-406: Senior Symposium on Research:
Ways of Thinking and Knowing
0 credits
This honors symposium takes place during the senior year, builds
upon the discussion of critical thinking and research from
previous honors courses and examines the topics of research and
knowledge. This symposium analyzes the Great Questions that
examine ways of perceiving . Prerequisite: Acceptance into the
honors program.
HON-406B: Project Management Fellowship 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during senior year and
incorporates hands-on, mentored training experiences in various
fields of study. Students contribute directly to current projects,
business proposals, and project management experiences. This
symposium also incorporates basic project management skills.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-406C: Research & Design Program 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during senior year and
includes hands-on, mentored training experiences in each
science, engineering, and technology. Students are expected to
contribute directly to current research and design projects being
led by faculty while learning techniques and various
methodologies. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors
program.
HON-406D: Global Studies and Service 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during senior year and builds
upon local or global service among diverse populations, study
abroad, and mission trip experience. This symposium investigates
multicultural awareness, and includes a reflective approach on
integrated experiential learning, personal development,
disciplinary knowledge, and spiritual growth through active,
global involvement. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the honors
program.
HON-406E: Internship 0 credits
This symposium course takes place during senior year and builds
upon internship experience. This symposium explores
professional development, and includes a reflective approach on
integrated experiential learning, personal development, and
disciplinary knowledge through active involvement. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-406F: Career Planning and Professional
Development
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during senior year and builds
upon themes of career and professional development. This
symposium explores brand building, professional and leadership
development, effective communication, and developing a
professional portfolio for the workplace. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
HON-406G: Graduate and Medical School
Preparation
0 credits
This symposium course takes place during senior year and gives
students the opportunity to gain more understanding of the
process of applying to graduate and medical programs.
Throughout this course, students conduct extensive review of the
graduate and medical school application process for their
respective careers, including understanding which specified exam
is relevant for their future program and methodology to help them
appropriately prepare. Additionally, students learn how to
compile application artifacts such as a personal statement,
resume, and letters of recommendation as well as prepare for the
graduate and medical school interview process. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
Hospitality (HOS)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 382 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HOS-200: Introduction to Hospitality 4 credits
This course introduces the hospitality industry and essential guest
service and communication skills that ensure efficient delivery of
quality services. Students are taught the skills necessary to
effectively communicate, meet the service quality expectations of
a diverse clientele, and appropriately represent their
organizations.
HOS-440: Hotel and Lodging Management
and Operations I
4 credits
This course examines the management of hotel and lodging
operations with an emphasis on guest service and improving
profitability. Students are introduced to the basics of management
in core lodging segments, operational procedures, guest relations,
and the relationships between operational departments. Analysis
of operational efficiencies to improve organizational outcomes is
also addressed. Prerequisite: HOS-200.
HOS-450: Hotel and Lodging Management
and Operations II
4 credits
This course continues to examine the management of hotel and
lodging operations with an emphasis on identifying industry
trends to determine potential innovations, strategies, and quality
management techniques that improve organizational outcomes
and profitability. Innovation in the hotel and lodging industry is
also addressed. Prerequisite: HOS-440.
HOS-455: Events and Tourism Management 4 credits
This course explores the scope of the events and tourism
industry, analyzes the functions of the various segments, and
demonstrates the relationship between professional service and
operational success. Students receive a comprehensive
introduction to the complexities of planning and organizing an
event and an overview of the nature and scope of the meetings
and event industry. This course explains how the interrelated
sectors of the tourism industry can be better prepared to attract
and service people travelling for both business and leisure.
HOS-460: Food and Beverage Service
Management and Operations
4 credits
This course emphasizes the daily operations and management of
food and beverage service within the hospitality industry.
Students learn principles related to the hiring and training of
service workers, food handling and sanitation, layout and
equipment planning, and safety regulations and standards.
Essential elements of the course include purchasing and cost
control, menu management, and innovation in the food and
beverage industry. Prerequisite: HOS-200.
HOS-466: Revenue Management for
Hospitality
4 credits
This course focuses on identifying the components of revenue
management in order to optimize consumer demand, revenue and
profit for the hospitality industry. Students participate in
competitive analysis to identify market opportunities and develop
pricing and sales mix strategies that support organizational goals.
Students learn analytical modeling practices, market
segmentation, distribution channel mix, forecasting, and
budgeting. The use of industry benchmarking tools and metrics
relevant to revenue management are also addressed.
Prerequisites: HOS-440 and HOS-460.
HOS-470: Hospitality Services Marketing 4 credits
This course introduces the unique features of services marketing
with a focus on the importance of building and maintaining guest
relationships to deliver quality service through the development
of marketing strategies. Students will evaluate brand management
and determine strategic approaches suitable for the hospitality
industry with an emphasis on aligning strategies to organizational
goals. There is a particular emphasis on the applications of social
media and integrated marketing communications. Prerequisite:
MKT-245 or MKT-315.
Health Care Quality and Safety
(HQS)
HQS-610: Foundations of Quality
Improvement and Patient Safety
4 credits
This course provides foundational knowledge that will equip
learners to make decisions regarding quality improvement and
patient safety. Learners explore the quality improvement process
and examine the most commonly used models and tools for
improving health care quality. Learners will also evaluate
methods to track, assess, analyze, and review data relating to
patient safety issues. Prerequisite: NUR-590 & NUR-630 or
HCA-540.
HQS-620: Project Management in Health
Care
4 credits
This course examines the models and approaches of project
management in health care settings. Learners demonstrate
understanding of the project management process and its
application to health care quality and safety initiatives. Learners
gain skills to identify various stakeholders and roles, set goals
and expectations, plan stakeholder engagement, and identify
ways to mitigate obstacles in health care project management.
Prerequisite: HQS-610.
HQS-630: Implementation and Change
Management
4 credits
This course examines components of implementing health care
quality and safety initiatives. Learners examine the elements of
change management, identify criteria for success in change areas,
and plan phases and goals for implementation. Learners also
consider change sustainability and dissemination of successful
implementations. Prerequisite: HQS-620.
HQS-640: Quality Improvement and Patient
Safety Practicum
4 credits
This practicum course is the final synthesis of theoretical
foundations of health care quality and patient safety and their
application across health care settings. Emphasis is placed on
issue identification, assessment and prioritization, project
management, implementation, and evaluation. Learners also
explore the application of communication methods, emotional
intelligence, high reliability principles, and conflict resolution.
Practicum/field experience hours: 150. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: Successful completion of all previous
coursework in the program.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 383 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
Human Resources (HRM)
HRM-635: Acquiring, Developing, and
Leveraging Human Capital
4 credits
The effective strategic management of human capital is the
differentiator of every successful organization. This course
examines talent management, workforce diversity, succession
planning, employee development and motivation, and
performance matrix. This course addresses human resource
competencies identified by the Society of Human Resource
Management (SHRM). Using the strong strategic human resource
acumen provided by this course, students will be well-prepared
for positions as senior human resources specialists or as general
managers.
HRM-640: Designing HR for Competitive
Advantage
4 credits
Frequent mergers and acquisitions, downsizing, and globalization
have increased the complexities of managing human resources.
Linking human resource management to the bottom line and
decision making is critical for both strategy and business success.
This course addresses human resource competencies identified by
the Society of HR Management (SHRM). Using the strong
strategic HR acumen provided by this course, students will be
well-prepared for positions as senior human resources specialists
or as general managers.
History and Theological Studies
(HTH)
HTH-201: Christian Theology I 4 credits
This course is a study of theological methodology and the
doctrines of revelation, God, humanity, sin, and the person of
Jesus Christ with emphasis on the biblical bases for each
doctrine.
HTH-202: Christian Theology II 4 credits
This course is a study of theological methodology and the
doctrines of the works of Jesus Christ, salvation, the Holy Spirit,
the Church, and last times with emphasis on the biblical bases for
each doctrine.
HTH-330∆҂: Christian Ethics 4 credits
This writing-intensive course systematically studies the biblical,
theological, and philosophical foundations of Christian ethics as
compared with other ethical systems that shape public discourse
on ethical issues. Emphasis is placed on personal morality and an
exploration of contemporary issues relevant to the church's public
witness.
HTH330HN∆҂:
Christian Ethics 4 credits
This writing intensive course systematically studies the biblical,
theological, and philosophical foundations of Christian ethics as
compared with other ethical systems that shape public discourse
on ethical issues. Emphasis is placed on personal morality and an
exploration of contemporary issues relevant to the Church’s
public witness.
HTH-350҂: Survey of Historical Theology 4 credits
This course surveys the major developments within the history of
Christianity that have shaped Christian doctrine. Emphasis is
placed on key events, personalities, theological developments,
and movements. Prerequisites: HTH-201 and HTH-202.
HTH350HN҂:
Survey of Historical Theology 4 credits
This course surveys the major developments within the history of
Christianity that have shaped Christian doctrine. Emphasis is
placed on key events, personalities, theological developments,
and movements. Prerequisites: HTH-201 and HTH-202.
HTH-352HN: Honors Survey of Historical
Theology
4 credits
This honors-specific course surveys the major developments
within the history of Christianity that have shaped Christian
doctrine. Emphasis is placed on key events, personalities,
theological developments, and movements. Prerequisites: HTH201 and HTH-202. Prerequisites: HTH-201 and HTH-202.
HTH-380҂
: Kingdom Diversity 4 credits
This course in historical theology explores the diverse voices and
stories of ancient and modern saints whose lives have
exemplified faith, hope, and love within the context of their
unique time and circumstances.
HTH-475҂
: Applied Theology 4 credits
This course focuses on the practical ministry application of
theological principles. Special attention is given to theological
reflection in respect to methodology, apologetics, ethics, and the
mission of the church.
HTH-505: Systematic Theology I 4 credits
This course is a systematic study of the biblical bases, historical
development, and theological formulation of the Christian
doctrines of revelation, God, creation, humanity, sin, and the
Person of Christ, as well as their implications for individual and
corporate Christian life. Attention is also given to theological
prolegomena.
HTH-510: Christian History I 4 credits
This course is a historical exploration of the Christian church's
theological and institutional development from the postapostolic
era to the early medieval era (100-1300) with emphasis on
significant doctrinal statements, major thinkers and leaders,
important political figures, and movements.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 384 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
HTH-511: Christian History II 4 credits
This course is a historical exploration of the Christian church's
theological and institutional development from the late medieval
era to the late modern period (1300-2000) with emphasis on
significant doctrinal statements, major thinkers and leaders,
important political figures, and movements.
HTH-515: Christian Doctrines 4 credits
This course surveys cardinal doctrines of the Christian faith,
including revelation, God, humanity, Christ, and salvation.
Emphasis is placed on the development of sound theology
grounded in biblical understandings and practical wisdom for
ministry. Some attention is given to the historical development of
doctrine.
HTH515GAR:
Christian Doctrines 4 credits
This course surveys cardinal doctrines of the Christian faith
including revelation, God, humanity, Christ, and salvation.
Emphasis is placed on the development of sound theology
grounded in biblical understandings and practical wisdom for
ministry. Some attention is given to the historical development of
doctrine.
HTH-550: Systematic Theology II 4 credits
This course is a systematic study of the biblical bases, historical
development, and theological formulation of the Christian
doctrines of the works of Christ, salvation, the Holy Spirit, the
church, and the last things as well as their implications for
individual and corporate Christian life. Prerequisite: HTH-505.
HTH-611Ω: Pastoral Theology 4 credits
This is a practically oriented, theological examination of the roles
and responsibilities of ministers as they lead, equip, shepherd,
and intercede for God's people. This course is offered in
residency for non-traditional students. Prerequisite: HTH-505.
HTH-620: Practical Theology 4 credits
This course analyzes the practical dimensions of systematic
theology and assists students in making critical connections
between biblical teaching and ministry within specific contexts.
Emphasis is placed on faithful biblically rooted ministry,
including a focus on prayer, evangelism, discipleship, and church
leadership. This course requires supervised ministry hours.
Practicum/field experience hours: 45.
HTH620GAR:
Practical Theology 4 credits
This course analyzes the practical dimensions of systematic
theology and assists students in making critical connections
between biblical teaching and ministry within specific contexts.
Emphasis is placed on faithful biblically rooted ministry,
including a focus on prayer, evangelism, discipleship, and church
leadership. This course requires supervised ministry hours.
Practicum/field experience hours: 45.
HTH-640: Doctrine of the Church 4 credits
This course examines the biblical basis, history, and proper
formulation of ecclesiology for the purpose of leading the church
to display more fully God's glory through worship, ministry, and
mission. Emphasis is placed on the application of biblical and
theological principles within students' denominational heritage
and ecclesial context. This course requires supervised ministry
hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 45. Prerequisite: HTH505.
Humanities (HUM)
HUM201HN:
Intersections Between the
Humanities and Sciences
4 credits
An interdisciplinary Honors course that explores the common
processes between the humanities and the sciences that yield
common understandings. Topics will include genetics, ecology,
technology and ethics, as seen through the lens of canonical and
contemporary works from the arts and the humanities, as well as
the social and natural sciences. Assignments will include
quantitative analyses, multimodal presentations, and essays
requiring critical and synthetic thinking.
