Continuing Education (CTE)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 287 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ATP-5600TE: Prevention and Treatment of
Athletic Injuries
3 credits
This course provides an opportunity for future and current
coaches to acquire and apply knowledge of the prevention and
treatment of athletic injuries. Coaches will develop an
understanding how to train athletes to prevent injuries and the
importance of long-term care when an injury does occur.
Additionally, coaches will explore how to recognize an injury,
the appropriate response and treatment, medical professional
coaches may need to collaborate with, and what to do in an
emergency situation.
BIO-5200TE: Anatomy and Physiology for
Coaching
3 credits
This course provides an opportunity for future and current
coaches to acquire and apply knowledge of anatomy and
physiology. Coaches will develop an understanding of the basic
terminology, body organization, and organs. Additionally,
coaches will look at how the body works together to maximize
performance and promote overall health.
COA-5300TE: Signs of Physical, Emotional,
Sexual Abuse, Neglect, and
Bullying
1 credits
Students spend a large amount of time with their teachers,
coaches, and educational mentors in various settings. As such,
educators can often be one of the first persons to witness and
identify the signs and symptoms of abusive settings. This course
focuses on identifying and responding to signs of child abuse and
bullying. Physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse, neglect,
bullying, and cyberbullying are explored.
EAD-5050TE: Education Law for K-12 School
Administrators
3 credits
This course will introduce practitioners to the laws and policies
governing and relating to PreK-12 education in the United States.
Through case studies and scenarios, a broad range of topics will
be examined including, discipline, school safety, religion in
schools, and personnel issues. These and other topics will be
framed in context to inform the future administrator’s role in
improving outcomes for all students.
EAD-5100TE: Education Finance for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course examines PK-12 education finance with a
fundamental focus on issues and practices that directly affect the
operation of the school and local education agency (LEA).
Practitioners will be exposed to the regulations encompassed in
the Uniform System of Financial Records (USFR) and the
implications of these regulations at the school site level. School
finance topics related to education at the federal, state, and local
levels will be examined. Practitioners will explore school budget
and accounting principles, fiscal responsibility, resource
allocation, basic administrative theories, processes, and
techniques, as well as discuss the major challenges facing them in
the daily operation of local schools.
EAD-5130TE: Shaping School Culture for
Current Practitioners
3 credits
This course emphasizes the critical role of the leader in creating
and sustaining a positive school culture and shared vision. Given
diverse settings, contexts and leadership situations, educators will
explore how various leadership styles, philosophies and
behaviors can promote or hinder the development of a quality
learning culture and positive workplace conditions. Additionally,
supervisory processes and strategies by which educational leaders
can empower teacher self-efficacy and promote instructional
improvement that enriches the outcomes for all students will be
examined.
EAD-5200TE: Strengthening Curricular
Programs for Continuous School
Improvement
3 credits
This course prepares educators to become effective educational
leaders in the evaluation of schoolwide curricular programs to
promote continuous school improvement. Course content
includes processes in planning, implementation, and the
evaluation of programs and curriculum. Focus is placed on
ensuring that curricular design, instructional strategies, and
learning environments maximize learning and integrate
appropriate technologies. Data-driven analysis is emphasized
throughout.
EAD-5300TE: Improving Teacher Performance
and Self-Efficacy
3 credits
This course prepares current practitioners to become effective
building-level instructional leaders who are able to positively
enrich teaching and learning experiences/outcomes through
leadership practices that improve teacher performance, selfefficacy, and morale. Course topics promote improved
instructional performance, including growth-focused coaching,
collaborative learning and decision-making, safe and supportive
professional learning culture, and reflective practice. Practitioners
will examine current policy and practice in the areas of teacher
observation, evaluation, and teacher performance ratings.
EAD-5330TE: Developing and Empowering
Instructional Leaders for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course prepares educators to employ leadership and
mentoring strategies that promote the development of quality
teachers into effective instructional leaders. Course topics
promote the learning of distributed leadership practices and
identifying and empowering instructional leaders within a
faculty. Educators will be prepared to foster an understanding of
leading the evaluation of assessment data, components of peer
observation, and strategies to provide feedback to teachers
relevant to instructional planning and delivery.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 288 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
EAD-5350TE: Supervision for Instructional
Improvement
3 credits
This course prepares candidates to become effective buildinglevel supervisors of instructional leaders. Emphasis is placed on
improving instruction, teacher practices, and effective
communication. Candidates will examine institutional change,
school improvement, staff development, and teacher evaluation.
Supervision techniques will be explored, including: mentoring
and peer coaching, as well as clinical supervision. Special
emphasis will be placed on the skills and strategies needed to
develop learning organizations that build an appropriate
curriculum, support instructional improvement, and incorporate
best practices.
EAD-5360TE: Crisis Management in Schools for
Current Practitioners
3 credits
This course provides participants with the skills needed to
prepare for different types of emergencies in K-12 schools and to
respond appropriately. Topics are related to response on a
personal, classroom and schoolwide crises, are geared towards
helping K-12 personnel survive and assist during traumatic
situations. Topics addressed include safety procedures, student
and staff trauma, crisis response, bullying, and mandatory
reporting laws. Incorporating district policy, ethics, and school
law are also covered in relation to emergency situations.
EAD-5370TE: Leadership and Management in the
Principalship
3 credits
This course will explore critical issues facing school principals,
including the challenge of attracting and retaining a quality work
force, managing and allocating resources, innovative instructional
leadership, creating community partnerships, and meeting the
myriad of district, state and federal policies and laws. With a
focus on all Professional Standards for Educational Leaders
(PSEL), educators will holistically analyze a school’s Continuous
Improvement Plan (CIP) and focused action plans in various
contexts. This analysis will solidify understanding of the
important implications of managing school resources in order to
meet operational needs and improve outcomes for all students.
EAD-5505TE: Christian Philosophy in Education 3 credits
This course includes a study of the philosophy, principles, and
practices of teaching and learning applied to Christian leadership
in the Christian school setting. Emphasis is placed on selfanalysis of leadership skills, strengths, and styles. A critical
review and examination of contemporary leadership,
management, and administration practices in light of a Christian
worldview model is also emphasized. Practicum/field experience
hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
ECE-5010TE: Foundations of Early Childhood 3 credits
Practitioners survey the philosophical foundations upon which
early childhood educational theories and practices are
constructed. Current educational models, including the
Montessori education model, are explored. Practitioners examine
the application of educational philosophies and theories to the
early childhood classroom and evaluate their contemporary
usefulness in maximizing learning outcomes for young children.
Practitioners will also examine the roles and expectations of early
childhood educators and have the opportunity to reflect on and
plan for their own professional development.
ECE-5100TE∆
:Typical and Atypical Behaviors of
Young Children
3 credits
Practitioners survey how young children grow and develop,
recognizing that patterns of learning and development vary
individually across the cognitive, linguistic, physical, social, and
emotional areas while understanding the implications for
designing and implementing developmentally appropriate and
challenging learning experiences. This survey of the seminal
concepts, principles, theories, and research related to
development of young children will allow practitioners to build
foundational knowledge for constructing differentiated learning
opportunities that support individual students’ development,
acquisition of knowledge, and motivation. Practitioners review
atypical development, early intervention, and Parts A and B of
IDEA to develop IFSP, IEPs, and 504s for young children.
ECE-5200TE: Instruction, Assessment and
Reporting in Early Childhood
Education
3 credits
Practitioners examine a variety of instructional strategies that
encourage young children to build reading, writing, and oral
language skills in meaningful ways. Emphasis is placed on
integrating the creative arts throughout language arts curriculum
that practitioners will develop, teach, and assess. Practitioners
will also practice differentiation strategies that make instructional
decision to address individual student needs.
ECE-5230TE: Instructional Methods: Language
Arts and Creative Arts for
Practitioners
3 credits
Practitioners examine a variety of instructional strategies that
encourage young children to build reading, writing, and oral
language skills in meaningful ways. Emphasis is placed on
integrating the creative arts throughout language arts curriculum
that practitioners will develop, teach, and assess. Practitioners
will also practice differentiation strategies to make instructional
decisions to address individual student needs. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Prerequisite: none. Co-Requisite: none.
ECE-5235TE: Early Childhood Instructional
Methodologies: Mathematics
3 credits
Practitioners research instructional methodologies for teaching
mathematics to young children. Emphasis is placed on hands-on
and inquiry- and manipulative-based learning in mathematics
curriculum that practitioners will develop, teach, and assess.
Practitioners will also gather and analyze performance data to
make instructional decisions. In addition, they will build skills to
integrate literacy, science, social studies, and the creative arts into
mathematics lessons while strengthening mathematical
connections at home.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 289 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ECE-5240TE: Early Childhood Instructional
Methodologies: Science and Social
Studies
3 credits
Practitioners research instructional methodologies for teaching
science and social studies to young children. Emphasis is placed
on inquiry-based learning and real-world connections to science
and social studies curriculum that Practitioners will develop,
teach, and assess. Candidates will also gather and analyze
performance data to make instructional decisions. In addition,
Practitioners will build skills to integrate literacy, mathematics,
and the creative arts into science and social studies lessons while
strengthening connections at home. Practicum/field experience
hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required. Prerequisite:
None. Co-Requisite: None.
ECE-5300TE: Health, Safety, and Nutrition in
Growth and Development in Early
Childhood
3 credits
Practitioners explore child growth and development, including
developmental milestones that must be met with regard to
physical, cognitive, and social-emotional development, as well as
adaptability and approaches to learning for young children. This
course emphasizes safety, health, and nutrition with a focus on
the special health care needs of young children. Aspects of
physical development, including fitness and movement, gross and
fine motor skills, and fostering physical development within the
community are discussed. Practicum/field experience hours:
None. Fingerprint clearance not required. Prerequisite: None. CoRequisite: None.
ECE-5400TE: Developing Language and Early
Literacy in Young Children For
Practitioners
3 credits
This course examines the foundations for early language
development in young children. Practitioners build knowledge
regarding whole language, phonics, emergent literacy, and the
integration of literary elements. Practitioners focus on the
assessment of literacy abilities, meeting the literacy needs of
small groups, and literacy in the classroom and at home.
ECE-5600TE: Engaging the Family and Cultural
Awareness in Early Childhood
3 credits
Practitioners examine the family, community, and cultural
influences that affect young children. Practitioners identify
factors that put young children at risk as well as resources to
support various types of families and structures. Practitioners also
identify ways to meet community needs while promoting cultural
awareness and competence.
ECE-5660TE: Creating an Engaging Early
Childhood Learning Environment
3 credits
Practitioners use the guidance approach to create environments
that support individual and collaborative learning, encourage
positive social interaction, facilitate active engagement in
learning, and promote self-motivation. Montessori classroom
management philosophies are explored. Practitioners develop
skills related to establishing and maintaining organized, safe,
inclusive, respectful, challenging, and positive early childhood
environments with rules and expectations that are clearly
communicated. Practitioners also examine how to help students
overcome challenging behavior and learn from mistakes.
ECH-5210TE: Early Literacy Development for
Current Practitioners
3 credits
This course addresses early language development and teaching
strategies, supporting literacy development for those working
with students from birth to age 8. The stages of oral and emergent
language are addressed through language and literacy
development. Application of phonemic and alphabetic principle
skills is addressed through hands-on assignments. The course
allows learners to demonstrate how an effective literacy
environment can be developed.
ECS-5010TE: Foundational Studies in Early
Childhood Special Education
3 credits
This course places primary focus on the fundamental basis of the
field of early childhood education and early childhood special
education, Birth to Age 5/Pre-K to K to Age 8/Grade 3, including
historical and philosophical foundations, current practices, ethics,
models of teaching, and application in early childhood
education/early childhood special education settings.
Additionally, professional preparation requirements and
professional development opportunities in the field are explored.
ECS-5550TE: Child Development Including
Health, Safety, and Nutrition
3 credits
This course explores child growth and development, including
developmental milestones that must be met with regards to
physical, cognitive, and social-emotional development. The
course emphasizes health, safety, and nutrition with a focus on
special health care needs for young children. Educators will use
data to analyze the development of the whole child and consider
best practices for family involvement.
ECS-5600TE: Child, Family, Cultural,
Community Relationships, and
Advocacy
3 credits
This course examines historical foundations, theories, and models
of child development, including family characteristics, diversity,
multicultural factors, and community relationships. Educators
will identify community organizations that support children with
exceptionalities and their families. In addition, they will also
identify ways to use those resources to advocate for children and
their families.
ECS-5700TE: Language & Communication
Development in Early
Childhood/Special Education
3 credits
This course examines the foundations for early language
development for children, from Birth to Age 8/Grade 3. Focus is
placed on the use of technology with receptive and expressive
language, early literacy development, and communication
methods in early childhood education/early childhood special
education.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 290 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
EDU-5050TE: Influences of Family and
Community Engagement For
Current Practitioners
3 credits
Educators will explore how issues related to family relationships
and community environments interplay to influence classroom
dynamics. Special attention is given to family interaction
patterns, including communication processes, power
relationships, open and closed family systems, parent-child
relationships, and conflict resolution processes. Emphasis is
placed on frameworks, materials, and strategies for building
relationships with family and community members as well as the
development of successful family and community involvement in
the classroom. Practicum/field experience hours: None.
Fingerprint clearance not required.
EDU-5100TE: Professional, Ethical, and Legal
Practices and Policies in Education
3 credits
This course examines PreK-12 education policy from historical,
political, economic, and social perspectives. The effects of
federal and state laws and policies on the rights and
responsibilities of all stakeholders within education will be
examined. Emphasis will be placed on educational leadership in
the areas of advocacy, community relations, and equitable access
to education.
EDU-5220TE: K12 Curriculum Design and
Development For Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course offers an overview of the factors, principles, and
elements of curriculum development in the elementary and
secondary school. Emphasis is on philosophical and
psychological influences in education, as well as designing and
evaluating curricular patterns for urban schools.
EDU-5330TE: Social Justice for Educators 3 credits
In this course, participants examine the foundations and
dimensions of social justice in education, with the goal of
becoming culturally competent educators while integrating faith,
learning, and work. Participants reflect on their own worldview
and perceptions, and how those influence professional practice.
Emphasis is placed on developing cultural competence and
promoting positive relationships both in the classroom and
throughout the educational community.
EDU-5370TE: Leadership and Instructional
Coaching for Current Practitioners
3 credits
Educators will learn and apply coaching techniques in school and
community settings. Emphasis is placed on improving teacher
practices, school culture, and effective communication. Educators
will use cognitive coaching and teacher leadership skills.
EDU-5510TE: Differentiated Instruction for
Current Practitioners
3 credits
Educators will use data to differentiate curriculum, instruction,
and assessments to foster learning for all students. Focus will be
on patterns of learning and development, using technology to
differentiate instruction, and developing an engaging classroom
environment.
EDU-5540TE: Methods of Instruction and
Assessment for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
In this course, educators will develop skills in aligning
objectives, instruction, and assessments. Special attention is
given to differentiating curriculum for diverse students and using
assessment data to guide instruction. In addition, collaboration
with peers and colleagues will be used to achieve instructional
goals through action planning. Review of current trends in
instruction and assessment are presented to guide instructional
decisions with a special focus on the needs of diverse students.
EDU-5550TE: Classroom Assessment for
Mathematics
3 credits
This course promotes the understanding of theories and strategies
guiding math instruction within the framework of the Common
Core State Standards (CCSS) and National Council of Teachers
of Mathematics (NCTM) principles and standards. Practitioners
will analyze and integrate multiple methods of K-12 mathematics
assessment that support equity, student engagement, and
differentiation to meet various student needs. Particular emphasis
is given to monitoring student progress to guide instructional
practices and decision-making in the mathematics classroom.
EDU-5600TE: Language and Literacy
Development: Phonics and the
Science of Reading
3 credits
Practitioners will examine how to teach foundational skills to
develop proficient readers with the capacity to comprehend a
range of texts across various disciplines. In addition, practitioners
will build additional knowledge regarding print concepts,
phonological awareness, phonics and word recognition, and
fluency to promote early literacy and independent readers. With
this foundational knowledge, the science surrounding reading
instruction is explored and put into practice. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
EDU-5650TE: Differentiated Literacy Instruction:
Assessment, Intervention,
Remediation
3 credits
Practitioners explore proficient reading and writing, instructional
models that integrate listening, speaking, reading, and writing.
Theoretical principles of the elements of reading instruction are
examined to inform assessment, intervention, and remediation
practices. In addition, disabilities, such as dyslexia, are reviewed
to understand how they affect the acquisition of reading skills and
how they vary in presentation and degree. From this foundational
knowledge, practitioners will select, adapt, and use researchbased instructional strategies and interventions in academic
curricula to advance the learning for all students, with attention
focused on reading. Practicum/field experience hours: None.
Fingerprint clearance not required.
ELM-5050TE: Foundational Literacy Skills and
Phonics For Current Practitioners
3 credits
Educators will examine tools and strategies for effective
research-based phonics instruction. Topics include assessment in
and instruction of phonemes, phonemic awareness, graphemes,
phonics, spelling, and word recognition for reading and writing.
The relation of deficits in phonemic awareness, decoding,
spelling, and word recognition will also be explored.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 291 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ELM-5100TE: Creating and Managing Engaging
Learning Environments
3 credits
Educators examine how to create environments that support
individual and collaborative learning, encourage positive social
interaction, active engagement in learning, and self- motivation.
Teacher candidates build foundational knowledge regarding the
importance of establishing and maintaining positive collaborative
relationships with families, school colleagues, and agencies in the
larger community to promote the intellectual, social, emotional,
physical growth, and well-being of children.
ELM-5400TE: Foundational Literacy Skills and
Phonics for Current Practitioners
3 credits
Practitioners will examine how to teach foundational skills to
develop proficient readers with the capacity to comprehend texts
across a range of texts and disciplines. Practitioners will build
additional knowledge regarding print concepts, phonological
awareness, phonics and word recognition, and fluency to promote
early literacy and independent readers. Fingerprint clearance is
not required.
ELM-5500TE: Methods of Teaching & Integrating
Social Studies & the Arts
3 credits
Educators examine a variety of instructional strategies to
encourage learners to develop deep understanding of the major
concepts and modes of inquiry from the integrated study of
history, geography, the social sciences and other related areas.
Educators build foundational knowledge on promoting
elementary students’ abilities to make informed decisions as
citizens of a culturally diverse democratic society and
interdependent world. Educators integrate the content, functions
and achievements of the performing and visual arts as primary
media for communication, inquiry and engagement among
elementary students.
ELM-5600TE: Methods and Strategies of Teaching
Elementary Mathematics
3 credits
Educators examine a variety of instructional strategies to
encourage learners to develop deep understanding of the major
concepts and procedures that define number and operations,
algebra, geometry, measurement, and data analysis and
probability and to build skills to apply knowledge in meaningful
ways. Educators build foundational knowledge on engaging
problem solving, reasoning and proof, communication,
connections and representations to help students successfully
apply their developing skills to many different situations,
materials, and ideas.
ELM-5700TE: Methods of Teaching and
Integrating Science and Health for
Practitioners
3 credits
Elementary educators examine fundamental concepts of physical,
life, earth/space sciences and health education. Within this
course, educators will build foundational knowledge on a variety
of age-appropriate inquiry-based instructional strategies to teach
science, build student understanding of personal and social
applications, to convey the nature of science and student
development for the practice of skills that contribute to good
health.
ELM-5800TE: Methods of Teaching Elementary
English Language Arts
3 credits
Educators examine a variety of instructional strategies to
encourage learners to develop deep understanding of reading,
writing, and oral language and their connections, and to build
skills to apply knowledge in meaningful ways. Educators build
foundational knowledge on how to use the concepts from
reading, language, and child development to teach reading,
writing, speaking, viewing, listening, and thinking skills, and to
help students successfully apply their developing skills to many
different situations, materials, and ideas.
ESL-5400TE: Methods of Structured English
Immersion for Elementary Current
Practitioner
3 credits
This course examines the fundamentals of the legal, historical,
and educational foundations of Structured English Immersion
(SEI) and other instructional programs for K-8 English language
learners. Theoretical principles of language acquisition and the
role of culture in learning are examined. Methods of assessment
are identified and analyzed. Strategies to promote English
language development and improve academic achievement are
identified. Students plan standards-based instruction for K-8
English language learners. This course satisfies the requirements
for SEI Endorsement and is approved by the Arizona Department
of Education.
ESL-5450TE: Methods of Structured English
Immersion for Secondary Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course examines the fundamentals of the legal, historical,
and educational foundations of Structured English Immersion
(SEI) and other instructional programs for English language
learners in secondary education settings. Theoretical principles of
language acquisition and the role of culture in learning are
examined. Methods of assessment are identified and analyzed.
Strategies to promote English language development and
improve academic achievement are identified. Students plan
standards-based instruction for English language learners in
secondary education settings. This course satisfies the
requirements for SEI Endorsement and is approved by the
Arizona Department of Education.
PED-5100TE: Methods of Teaching Physical
Education at the Elementary Level
3 credits
This course will introduce practitioners to the constructs and
instructional practices within physical education (PE) at the
elementary level. Emphasis is placed on instructional planning
and sequencing, assessment, differentiation, and student
engagement. Classroom management is also addressed within the
context of elementary physical education instruction.
PED-5150TE: Methods of Teaching Physical
Education at the Secondary Level
3 credits
This course will introduce practitioners to the constructs and
instructional practices within physical education (PE) at the
secondary level. Emphasis is placed on instructional planning and
sequencing, assessment, differentiation, and student engagement.
Classroom management, including rules and procedures, is also
addressed within the context of secondary PE instruction.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 292 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
PED-5450TE: Methods of Coaching 3 credits
This course provides an opportunity for future and current
coaches to acquire and apply knowledge of methods and theories
for coaching adolescent athletes. Participants apply these to
develop a personal coaching philosophy and design a practice
session in a specific sport. Additionally, coaches explore the
social-emotional development of athletes, including promoting a
growth mindset and reflective practice and coaching diverse
populations.
POS-5300TE: Arizona and Federal Government
for Current Practitioners
1 credits
This course is a survey of Arizona history and government as
well as of American government. It meets the teacher
certification requirement for the study of Arizona government
and American government.
POS-5305TE: US Constitution for Current
Practitioners
1 credits
This course is a survey US Constitution and American
government. It meets the teacher certification requirement for the
study of US Constitution and American government.
POS-5400TE: AZ Constitution for Current
Practitioners
1 credits
This course is a survey of Arizona history and government. It
meets the teacher certification requirement for the study of
Arizona government.
PSY-5300TE: Signs of Physical, Emotional,
Sexual Abuse, Neglect, and
Bullying
1 credits
Students spend a large amount of time with their teachers,
coaches, and educational mentors in various settings. As such,
educators can often be one of the first persons to witness and
identify the signs and symptoms of abusive settings. This course
focuses on identifying and responding to signs of child abuse and
bullying. Physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse, neglect,
bullying, and cyberbullying are explored.
PSY-5350TE: Adolescent Psychology for Coaches 3 credits
This course provides an opportunity for future and current
coaches to acquire and apply knowledge of adolescent
psychology. Coaches will develop an understanding of typical
adolescent physical, intellectual, emotional, and social
development, as well as the effects of that development on their
overall growth. Additionally, coaches will consider how to apply
ethical decision making when working with developing
adolescents.
PSY-5360TE: Sports Psychology for Coaches 3 credits
This course provides an opportunity for future and current
coaches to acquire and apply knowledge of sports psychology for
adolescent athletes. Coaches will develop their own coaching
philosophy by building knowledge of how to support athletes in
setting goals, preparing mentally for performance, and managing
stress and anxiety. Additionally, coaches will use knowledge of
sports psychology to cultivate an effective team culture and
promote the overall student-athlete well-being.
REA-5000TE: Foundations in Reading For
Current Practitioners
3 credits
Educators survey the theoretical and evidence-based foundations
of reading and writing processes and instruction. This survey
includes an exploration of the historical foundations of reading
through current reading and writing development, processes, and
components. Educators are introduced to ethical and professional
roles of reading specialists and literacy coaches.
REA-5005TE: Instructional Methods for Students
with Dyslexia
3 credits
Educators survey how dyslexia occurs in people of all
backgrounds and intellectual levels. This includes early
intervention to promote student success throughout school and
life. Educators recognize the signs of dyslexia, participate in the
identification and assessment process and provide students
needed supports through proper instructional strategies, assistive
technology, accommodations, and modifications. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
REA-5100TE: Survey of Reading Assessments for
Current Practitioners
3 credits
Practitioners research and describe best practices regarding
standardized reading assessments. Educators evaluate effective
formative and summative reading assessments to plan and
evaluate instruction and identify appropriate interventions that
optimize student learning. This survey prepares educators to
develop strategic interventions to effectively meet reading and
writing needs, communicate assessment results to key
stakeholders, and effectively use progress-monitoring tools to
address the learning needs of struggling readers and writers.
REA-5200TE: Introductory Instructional Methods
for Elementary Reading and
Writing
3 credits
Educators examine instructional methodology and resources that
support effective research-based literacy instruction in reading
and writing. This survey prepares elementary educators to design
an integrated, comprehensive, and balanced literacy curriculum.
Topics include instruction of phonics, phonemic awareness,
vocabulary, comprehension and fluency in reading, writing,
listening and speaking. Identification of struggling readers and
differentiation of instructional strategies will also be explored.
REA-5250TE: Introductory Instructional Methods
for Secondary Reading and Writing
3 credits
Educators survey instructional approaches and materials that
support middle and secondary student learning in reading and
writing. This survey prepares middle and secondary educators to
design an integrated, comprehensive, and balanced literacy
curriculum.
REA-5400TE: Advanced Studies in Elementary
Content Reading and Writing
3 credits
Educators engage in advanced studies of instructional approaches
and materials at the building and district level that support
student learning in reading and writing across content areas.
From this advanced study, educators work with their colleagues
to design an integrated, comprehensive, and balanced literacy
curriculum.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 293 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
REA-5450TE: Advanced Studies in Methods for
Secondary Content Reading and
Writing
3 credits
Educators engage in advanced studies of instructional approaches
and materials at the building and district level that support
secondary students’ learning in reading and writing across
content areas. From this advanced study, educators work with
their colleagues to design an integrated, comprehensive, and
balanced literacy curriculum.
REA-5500TE: Literate Environments for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
Educators create a literate environment that fosters reading and
writing by integrating foundational knowledge, instructional
practices, approaches and methods, curriculum materials, and the
appropriate use of assessments.
REA-5700TE: Elementary Education Reading
Practicum for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
The practicum experience requires educators to implement
literacy intervention instruction that is designed to meet the
specific needs of Elementary students in grades 1-8 and engage in
research and analysis to support the compilation and creation of a
Literacy Work Sample (LWS). In addition, the candidates coach
and provide support to other teachers to think reflectively about
improving student learning and implementing various
instructional practices. Practicum/field experience hours: 75.
Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-5800TE: Secondary Education Reading
Practicum for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
The practicum experience requires educators to implement
literacy intervention instruction that is designed to meet the
specific needs of Secondary students in grades 6-12 and engage
in research and analysis to support the compilation and creation
of a Literacy Work Sample (LWS). In addition, the candidates
coach and provide support to other teachers to think reflectively
about improving student learning and implementing various
instructional practices. This course requires access to a PK-12
school for practicum experiences. Practicum/field experience
hours: 75. Fingerprint clearance required. Practicum/field
experience hours: 75. Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-5850TE: Children's Literature for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
Educators will evaluate types and purposes of literature based on
the developmental literacy needs of elementary-aged children.
Particular emphasis is dedicated to the various genres that exist
within the literature spectrum and how to utilize the different
genres to meet specific instructional needs, including the use of
digital text, to meet literacy goals.
SEC-5060TE: Early Adolescent and Adolescent
Psychology for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course is a survey of early adolescent and adolescent growth
and development, recognizing that patterns of learning and
development vary individually within and across the cognitive,
social/emotional, and physical areas. This overview of the
seminal concepts, principles, theories, and research related to
development of adolescents will allow educators to build
foundational knowledge for constructing learning opportunities
that support individual students’ development, acquisition of
knowledge, and motivation.
SEC-5100TE: Creating and Managing Engaging
Secondary Learning Environments
3 credits
This course is designed to allow the educator the opportunity to
learn techniques involved in the successful engagement and
management of a learning environment. Major emphasis is
placed to the establishment of a realistic discipline plan to
manage student behavior, as well as engagement and
management techniques and strategies to maximize instructional
time, classroom procedures, and physical space.
SEC-5150TE: Assessment and Evaluation for
Middle and High School Teachers
3 credits
Educators will investigate multiple methods of assessment that
support student engagement, monitoring student progress, and
guiding decision-making. Educators will build foundational
knowledge regarding formal and informal assessment strategies
for planning, evaluating, and strengthening instruction to promote
continuous intellectual, social, emotional, and physical
development of each student.
SEC-5250TE: Methods and Strategies for Middle
and High School Teachers
3 credits
This course is designed to foster application of proven teaching
and learning methodologies for both instructor and student in
order to make appropriate and data-driven decisions about all
aspects of teaching. Major emphasis is focused on planning
instructional objectives and lessons, assessing objectives, and
developing teaching methodology that encourages problem
solving, active participation, and assessment.
SEC-5400TE: Adolescent Literacy for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course is designed to develop a broad range of researchbased reading methodologies to enhance the learning strategies of
middle and secondary school students. Major emphasis is placed
on the use of reading strategies for culturally and socially diverse
classrooms, including the use of literacy-based instruction in all
content areas and understanding, evaluating, and promoting
effective pedagogy in adolescent literacy. The development and
use of integrated and thematic approaches of instruction are
addressed.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 294 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SEC-5800TE: Curriculum Design for Middle and
High School Teachers
3 credits
This course focuses on the principles and practices involved in
curriculum design. Various orientations to curriculum
development and assessment are investigated and elements of
model curricula are examined. Emphasis is placed on
understanding current structures and trends in high schools, as
well as critical issues, as these relate to curriculum and
assessment. Course content is strategically planned to enable
participants to make informed curriculum decisions to meet the
needs of a diverse student population. Also emphasized is the
alignment of educational objectives to standards and building
both formative and summative assessments, including rubrics to
analyze student learning. During the course, educators will
develop their own curriculum unit.
SPD-5000TE: Survey of Special Populations: Mild
to Moderate Disabilities
3 credits
Participants are introduced to the educational needs of students
with mild to moderate disabilities and their families, including
the definitions, characteristics, prevalence, causes and
educational approaches to these disabilities and disorders.
Participants will identify cognitive, linguistic, social and
emotional patterns of learning and development for students with
mild to moderate disabilities. Participants also survey the special
education process involving the application of various laws and
regulations.
SPD-5020TE: Characteristics of Students with
Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities
3 credits
In this course, educators focus on the key characteristics of K-12
students with mild to moderate exceptionalities including specific
learning disabilities, emotional and intellectual disabilities,
Autism Spectrum Disorder, language, visual, hearing, orthopedic,
and other health impairments, Traumatic Brain Injury, and
multiple disabilities. Educators will learn the definition, causes,
prevalence of, and potential effects that each exceptionality can
have on students’ learning. They will also identify research-based
instructional and behavior management strategies that can be
effective when working with students with these exceptionalities.
SPD-5030TE: Foundations of Gifted Education
for Current Practitioners
3 credits
Participants will explore the historical foundations and evolution
of gifted education, including definitions of giftedness.
Participants will compare and contrast perspectives of giftedness,
and describe characteristics of gifted, talented, and creative
students and their implications for academic instruction.
Emphasis is placed on identifying major contributors and their
contributions to the field of gifted education, as well as major
theories of intelligence and their relevance to gifted education.
Participants will also examine equity, diversity, and bias in gifted
education.
SPD-5040TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder: Survey
of Special Education
3 credits
This course orients educators to the theoretical foundations of
autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Educators will focus on the
unique needs of students with ASD and their responsibilities to
respond to those needs. This course also examines legal and
ethical considerations when collaborating and advocating for
students with ASD and families in the school environment.
SPD-5050TE: Foundations in Autism Spectrum
Disorder
3 credits
This course orients special educators to the theoretical
foundations of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Special
educators will focus on the exceptional needs of students with
ASD and teacher's responsibilities to determining eligibility and
assessment. This course also examines diagnoses and
implications in the school environment.
SPD-5060TE: Survey of Moderate to Severe
Special Education for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
Current practitioners are introduced to the educational needs of
students with moderate to severe exceptionalities including the
definitions, characteristics, prevalence, causes and educational
approaches to these disabilities and disorders. Candidates define
low-incidence disabilities and identify cognitive, linguistic,
social, emotional and behavioral patterns of learning and
development for individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities.
SPD-5070TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Inclusive Practices
3 credits
In this course, educators will look at how individuals with autism
spectrum disorders (ASD) experience difficulties in the areas of
social acceptance and social communication. Emphasis is placed
on how interactions with their typically developing peers can
allow for opportunities to learn social skills and increase
communication skills. Educators will determine the definition of
inclusion and research how it impacts students with disabilities.
Specific focus is placed on how to support students with ASD in
an inclusive environment, including supports in the areas of
environmental, social/emotional, behavioral and communication.
SPD-5100TE: Professional, Ethical, and Legal
Practices and Policies in Special Ed
3 credits
Educators survey professional ethical principles, professional
practice standards, law and regulations that guide special
educators. Educators build upon the foundational knowledge to
understand the multiple roles and complex situations of
professional practice that require attention to a variety of legal,
professional, and ethical issues.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 295 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-5110TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Instructional Strategies and
Interventions
3 credits
Educators will determine strategies to align with the different
ways individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) think,
learn, and behave in the classroom. Educators will use
differentiated instruction and Universal Design for Learning
(UDL) strategies to design interventions based on process,
content and product, including specific strategies for engagement
and speech and language support. Educators will support an
inclusive environment with all instructional strategies.
SPD-5130TE: Instructional Methods in Gifted
Education for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course outlines instructional techniques used to address the
individual learning needs, strengths, styles, and preferences of
gifted, talented, and creative students in K-12 classrooms.
Participants explore the design of differentiated curriculum and
instruction for gifted learners. Emphasis is placed on
differentiation strategies that improve student achievement
through use of instructional strategies targeting large groups,
small groups, and individuals.
SPD-5150TE: Assessing Instructional Methods for
Autism Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
The focus of this course is to provide methods for improvement
of instruction, based on assessment for students with autism
spectrum disorders (ASD). Special educators will focus on
instructional planning, adaptive practices, and intervention
strategies established through assessment analysis.
SPD-5170TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder: DataDriven Assessment
3 credits
This course provides educators the opportunity to explore how
behavioral, academic, and social assessments are used when
determining effective instructional strategies and interventions
for students with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). A focus is
placed on synthesizing data to make instructional decisions that
support students in a variety of settings. Educators will look at
how to gather data during instruction and monitor progress of
students' IEP goals.
SPD-5200TE: Collaborations and
Communications in Special
Education
3 credits
Educators survey theories and models for effective collaboration
and communication with students with exceptionalities,
colleagues, other school professionals, families and community
members. In addition, educators will apply collaboration and
communication theories and models, incorporating technology,
across a wide range of contexts to ensure active involvement in
the education process for students with exceptionalities.
SPD-5230TE: Creativity and Talent Development
in Gifted Education for
Practitioners
3 credits
In this course, participants study the theoretical and practical
aspects of creativity and explore how it can be developed in
gifted, talented, and creative students. Participants analyze
definitions of creativity and learn techniques for stimulating
creative thinking as well as strategies for adapting existing
curricula to develop creative thinking abilities in students.
Emphasis is placed on the assessment of creative thinking,
methods for enhancing personal creative abilities, and techniques
for examining the creative process.
SPD-5250TE: Applied Behavior Analysis and
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
The focus of this course is to provide special educators with
advanced knowledge of applied behavior analysis in regards to
accommodations for students with autism spectrum disorder.
Special educators will focus on assessing individual needs, tools
for intervention, and evaluating strategies and student progress.
SPD-5270TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Positive Behavior Support
3 credits
Special educators will explore the behavioral needs of students
with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and learn about positive
behavior supports that can be used to address these behavioral
needs. Special educators will focus on the specific sensory,
communication, and behavior supports that can be applied to
address and change behavior. The course also examines
environmental factors affecting the behavior of students with
ASD and the responsibility of teachers in determining and
implementing evidence-based practices to address the unique
behavioral needs of students with ASD.
SPD-5300TE: Assessment and Eligibility in
Special Education: Mild to
Moderate
3 credits
Educators will investigate diagnostic and assessment tools.
Educators will build foundational knowledge regarding the use of
multiple methods of assessment and data-sources for diagnostic
and educational decisions for individuals with mild to moderate
disabilities.
SPD-5370TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Advocacy, Policy, and Ethics
3 credits
Practitioners will acquire knowledge of legal policy and ethical
practices associated with students with autism spectrum disorder
(ASD). This course focuses on rights and responsibilities, trends,
and advocacy for students with ASD. Topics including implicit
bias, equity, and inclusion are also addressed. Practitioners will
review collaborative practices and relationship building
techniques to foster sharing as part of the IEP process when
working with students with ASD.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 296 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-5400TE: Managing Learning Environments
for Special Ed Mild to Moderate
3 credits
Educators examine how to create safe, inclusive, culturally
responsive learning environments through collaboration with
colleagues so that individuals with exceptionalities become active
and effective learners and develop emotional well-being, positive
social interactions, and self-determination. Educators focus on
behavior management, functional behavior assessments, adaptive
behaviors, positive behavior interventions and supports, and
behavior improvement plans.
SPD-5411TE: Assistive Technology for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
Practitioners examine a variety of assistive technology (AT)
devices used to support differentiated instruction and Universal
Design for Learning (UDL) for students with disabilities.
Practitioners investigate methods of integrating high- and lowtech AT resources to support the reading, writing, and
communication needs of students who may need modifications
and accommodations to meet learning goals in all content areas.
SPD-5470TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Collaboration and Leadership
3 credits
This course addresses collaboration and leadership opportunities
for practitioners working with the many stakeholders involved in
the delivery of services for students with autism spectrum
disorders. Practitioners will complete needs assessment activities
and explore collaborative practices, problem-solving techniques,
and conflict resolution strategies with stakeholders to promote the
advancement of the profession. Leadership, creation and
facilitation of professional development activities, and creating
and sustaining productive work environments will be
emphasized.
SPD-5500TE: Instructional and Transitional
Planning for Students with Mild to
Moderate
3 credits
Educators will examine how instructional planning advances the
learning of students with mild to moderate disabilities by drawing
upon knowledge of central concepts, structures of the discipline,
and tools of inquiry of the academic subject-matter content areas
and a variety of specialized curricula. Educators build
foundational knowledge about individualized education plans and
transition plans for a wide range of settings and different learning
experiences. Educators engage in organizing knowledge,
integrating cross-disciplinary skills, and developing meaningful
individualized learning progressions through drafting an IEP.
SPD-5505TE: Transition Planning to Support
Post-Secondary Goals
3 credits
Educators will examine curriculum needs of individuals with
mild to moderate disabilities to develop and integrate the skills
needed to transition students from the educational environment
into successful postsecondary opportunities. Candidates focus on
writing measurable postsecondary goals, creating aligned
activities, and identifying the importance of family and
interagency involvement.
SPD-5510TE: Professional, Ethical, and Legal
Practices for Moderate to Severe
3 credits
Current practitioners survey professional ethical principles,
professional practice standards, laws, and regulations that guide
special educators. Practitioners build upon this foundational
knowledge to examine the multiple roles and complex situations
of professional practice related to individuals with moderate to
severe exceptionalities.
SPD-5530TE: Assessing and Identifying Gifted
Learners for Current Practitioners
3 credits
This course focuses on developing skills to assess intelligence,
achievement, creativity, and other dimensions of giftedness.
Educators evaluate assessment procedures of gifted and talented
students, including identification, placement and programming.
Emphasis is placed on reviewing the principles of assessment and
evaluation that apply to the education of gifted, talented, and
creative students, including testing, performance-based
assessments, and other methods of observations and student
evaluations in K-12 classrooms.
SPD-5560TE: Assessment and Eligibility for
Moderate to Severe
3 credits
Current practitioners investigate diagnostic and assessment tools
for determining student eligibility and monitoring for progress.
Foundational knowledge is built regarding the use of multiple
methods of assessment and data sources for diagnostic and
educational decisions for individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities. Practitioners analyze assessment data and
develop an individualized education plan (IEP) for a student.
Ongoing collaboration with IEP team members and external
stakeholders is emphasized.
SPD-5570TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Transitions and Life Skills
3 credits
This course addresses key requirements of the postsecondary
transition plan and collaboration with stakeholders in school and
the community. Practitioners will learn about appropriate
transition assessments, aligned activities, and preparation for
adult life. In addition, practitioners explore postsecondary
options, adult services, and living options for adults with autism
spectrum disorder.
SPD-5580TE: Care, Collaboration, and
Communication for Moderate to
Severe
3 credits
Teacher practitioners explore effective collaboration and
communication techniques and strategies used in moderate to
severe special education settings. Collaboration among teachers,
other school professionals, families, and outside service agencies
is analyzed to meet the individual needs of this special
population. In addition, evaluation of the techniques and
strategies used to meet the unique medical and educational needs
of students within the moderate to severe classroom setting is
addressed. Practicum/field experience hours: None. Fingerprint
clearance not required.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 297 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-5600TE: Enhancing Communication Skills
for Mild to Moderate Disabilities
3 credits
Educators examine typical and atypical language development,
and associated disabilities and disorders. Educators investigate
the use of augmentative and alternative assistive technology,
modifications and accommodations to enhance the
communication skills of students with mild to moderate
disabilities.
SPD-5620TE: Instructional Planning, Strategies,
and Assessment for ModerateSevere
3 credits
Current practitioners examine how instructional planning
advances the learning of students with moderate to severe
disabilities by creating a variety of specialized curricula aligned
to content standards. Practitioners are guided in designing
engaging instruction that meets the needs documented in a
student’s individualized education plan. Plans for
accommodations, differentiated instruction, and strategies are
identified in the lesson planning process. Formative and
summative assessments are created to evaluate student progress
and identify whether instructional adjustments are necessary.
SPD-5630TE: Gifted Programming and
Environments for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course explores the development of effective programs in
gifted education. Educators evaluate gifted education
programming related to gifted curriculum models, focus on the
development of a well-founded rationale for gifted programming,
compare appropriate delivery models for gifted programs, and
identify comprehensive services for gifted, talented, and creative
students. Emphasis is placed on evaluating and modifying
learning environments and classroom climates to assist students
who are gifted, talented, and creative to adapt to their
environment, as well as advocating for gifted programs.
SPD-5640TE: Classroom Management and
Behavior Analysis for Moderate to
Severe
3 credits
Current practitioners examine how to create safe, inclusive,
culturally responsive learning environments through
collaboration with colleagues and other professionals so
individuals with disabilities become active and effective learners.
Strategies to develop students' emotional well-being, positive
social interactions, and self-determination are emphasized.
Practitioners focus on functional behavioral assessments,
behavior improvement plans, activities of daily living, and
positive behavior interventions and supports.
SPD-5650TE: Effective Communication and
Assistive Tech for Autism
Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
This course explores functional communication training and
specific strategies to promote effective communication behaviors
or skills of students with ASD. In addition, educators will survey
assistive technology in relation to enhancing communication of
students with autism spectrum disorders.
SPD-5660TE: Post-Secondary Transitional
Planning - Moderate to Severe
Disabilities
3 credits
Participants examine curriculum needs of individuals with
moderate to severe disabilities to develop and integrate the skills
needed to transition students from the educational environment
into successful postsecondary opportunities. Participants focus on
writing meaningful transition plans, aligning transition goals to
appropriate instruction, and identifying the importance of family
and interagency involvement. While helping families navigate
their local and state level resources, participants learn to best
support students with moderate and severe disabilities after
graduating high school.
SPD-5670TE: Autism Spectrum Disorder:
Assistive Tech and Communication
Strategies
3 credits
This course explores functional communication training and
specific strategies to promote effective communication behaviors
or skills of students with autism spectrum disorder (ASD).
Practitioners will survey assistive technology in relation to
enhancing communication of students with autism spectrum
disorders. Consideration of how to manage challenging
expectations, show respect and improve ethical practice to
promote advocacy and collaboration will extend to the home
environment for life-skill application.
SPD-5680TE: Adaptive Communication for
Moderate to Severe
3 credits
Current practitioners examine typical and atypical language
development, and associated disabilities and disorders.
Practitioners investigate how speech-language pathologists,
special education teachers and others assist individuals with
moderate to severe exceptionalities in the use of augmentative
and alternative assistive technology, modifications, and
accommodations to enhance their communication skills.
SPD-5700TE: Methods of Teaching Math to
Students with Mild to Moderate
Disabilities
3 credits
Educators build foundational knowledge on a variety of researchbased instructional strategies to encourage individuals with mild
to moderate disabilities to develop understandings and
connections within content areas and to build skills to apply
knowledge in meaningful ways. From this foundational
knowledge, teacher candidates select, adapt and use researchbased instructional strategies and interventions in academic and
specialized curricula to advance the learning of students with
mild to moderate disabilities with focused attention upon
mathematics.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 298 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-5705TE: Methods of Teaching Secondary
Math to Students with Mild-Mod
Disabilities
3 credits
Practitioners build foundational knowledge on a variety of
research-based instructional strategies to encourage individuals
with mild to moderate disabilities to develop understandings and
connections within content areas and to build skills to apply
knowledge in meaningful ways. From this foundational
knowledge, practitioners select, adapt and use research-based
instructional strategies and interventions in academic and
specialized curricula to advance the learning of students with
mild to moderate disabilities with focused attention upon
mathematics at the secondary level.
SPD-5720TE: Methods of Teaching Functional
Mathematics & Science for
Moderate to Severe
3 credits
Current practitioners build foundational knowledge on a variety
of research-based instructional strategies to provide individuals
with moderate to severe exceptionalities appropriate access to
content areas. From this foundational knowledge, practitioners
select, adapt, monitor, and adjust standards, instruction, and
assessments with focused attention on functional mathematics
and sciences. Emphasis is placed on utilizing relevant resources
and technology and communicating with other education
stakeholders to support standards-based instruction for students
with moderate to severe disabilities.
SPD-5730TE: Social and Emotional Needs of
Gifted Learners
3 credits
In this course educators use current research and material
relevant to assisting gifted, talented, and creative students in
addressing social- and emotional issues that may arise. Emphasis
is placed on topics pertinent to gifted education, including
students who are twice- exceptional, or profoundly gifted, and
issues related to perfectionism, gender, underachievement, and
special populations.
SPD-5800TE: Methods of Teaching English
Language Arts to Students with
Mild to Moderate
3 credits
Educators select, adapt, and use research-based instructional
strategies and interventions in academic and specialized curricula
to individualize meaningful and challenging learning for students
with mild to moderate disabilities, with an emphasis on literacy.
SPD-5820TE: Methods of Teaching Functional
Language Arts for Moderate to
Severe
3 credits
Current practitioners select and adapt research-based instructional
strategies, including the use of assistive and adaptive technology,
to provide individuals with moderate to severe exceptionalities
access to language arts content. With this foundational
knowledge, practitioners plan a functional approach to literacy
instruction and transition planning.
SPD-5850TE: Educational Psychology for Special
Education for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
This course provides a thematically arranged study of the theories
and principles of psychology that have influenced instructional
practices. Behavioral and cognitive approaches to learning,
motivation, and instruction are explored.
SPD-5930TE: Practicum I: Gifted Education 3 credits
This course provides a reflective, experience-based integration of
theory and practice. Candidates develop a useful, meaningful,
and practical project that includes a schoolwide needs assessment
and program development that will be presented to their peers.
This course requires access to a K-12 school with a gifted
program for practicum experiences. Practicum/field experience
hours: 60. Fingerprint clearance required. Practicum/field
experience hours: 60. Fingerprint clearance required.
SPD-5940TE: Practicum II: Gifted Education 3 credits
This practicum course engages teachers in a field-based action
research project. Each participant assesses students exhibiting
gifted characteristics, then creates and implements individualized
one-on-one action plans with the students based on their
assessment results. Practicum/field experience hours: 60.
Fingerprint clearance required.
SPD-5950TE: Methods of Educating Learners
with Diverse Needs
3 credits
Emphasis is placed on definitions, etiology, characteristics, and
prevalence of various exceptionalities; laws and litigation
protecting the rights of students with special needs and their
families; current issues affecting persons with special needs;
social perceptions, assessment, inclusion, and transition; and
basic curriculum accommodations and supportive services for
teaching students with special needs in the general classroom.
TEC-5160TE: Instructional Technology for
Educators
3 credits
This course introduces students to ISTE·S and ISTE·T standards
for students and teachers; digital citizenship and responsibility;
legal and ethical use guidelines; and transitioning instruction to
integrate technology. Technology dispositions, expectations, and
guidelines are emphasized for being a 21st century educator.
Educators apply an understanding of design principles in visual
communication theory and incorporate multiple intelligences and
constructivist theories into an interactive environment. In
addition, attention is given to instructional technology tools and
resources.
TEC-5210TE: Digital Literacies, Virtual Tools,
and New Media
3 credits
This course focuses on the organization and integration of media
in school curricula. Learners identify instructional purposes and
define roles for technology and media in learning and teaching.
An emphasis is placed on the processes for selecting and
implementing meaningful technologies, virtual tools and other
electronic learning resources, and the development of digital
literacies in teaching and learning.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 299 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
TEC-5300TE: Ethics, Culture, and Equity with
Technology
3 credits
This course examines current educational practices and policies
related to technology integration in schools so that practicing
educators may determine what level of support these policies
provide, regardless of student population. Educator participants
will also examine legal standards for fair use of materials, digital
citizenship, and authenticating sources. Emphasis is placed on the
critical examination of social and cultural implications of
information technologies and media, issues of cultural bias,
equity, and international applications and implications of
information technologies.
TEC-5360TE: Assessment and Instructional
Technology
3 credits
This course focuses on various technology-based assessment
tools used for formative and summative assessments. Learners
use tools to make data-driven decisions to drive curriculum and
differentiate instruction. The content of this course includes use
of digital media for progress monitoring or as assessment tools
and creating and using alternative assessments. An emphasis is
placed on understanding assistive technology and application in
instructional programs and assessment for individuals with
exceptionalities.
TEC-5410TE: Distance Learning 3 credits
This course expands educator’s knowledge of lesson preparation
and activities, as well as basic curriculum development and
design principles for distance education. The course explores
distance education and online instruction, including history,
theories, and practical applications. A variety of online
facilitation techniques are explored in this course. An emphasis is
placed on understanding distance education development and
delivery, exploring the complexities of designing instruction in
various distance contexts and applying these concepts in a realworld context through online facilitation.
TEC-5440TE: Leadership and Technology
Coaching
3 credits
This course examines the role of leadership as it relates to the
implementation of educational technologies and media. An
emphasis is placed on knowledge, and skills necessary to use,
evaluate, plan, manage, and implement technologies effectively.
Participants will learn and apply professional development
techniques to include andragogy, coaching, improving teacher
practices, school culture, and effective communication.
TEC-5610TE: Multimedia Instructional Strategies
and Methods
3 credits
This course provides participants with instructional strategies
using learning theories. Focus is placed on developing knowledge
and skills to create multiple types of web-based assignments and
units for K-12 students using web authoring software.
Participants learn to select and evaluate appropriate multimedia
resources, and examine steps for planning, creating, and
managing curriculum using software and tools for a variety of
platforms. Emphasis is placed on project-based learning.
TSL-5320TE: Foundations of Instruction for
English Language Learners
3 credits
This course provides the historical, sociological, political, and
legal foundations of policies and methodologies for English
Language Learners (ELLs) in the United States. Emphasis is
placed on understanding, comparing, and evaluating current
language models as well as examining the learner and the
influences on his/her language development. This course focuses
on current instructional practices, adapting lesson structure and
delivery to meet the needs of learners, and emphasizes the
importance of continuing professional development associated
with teaching practices.
TSL-5410TE: Linguistics for Current
Practitioners
3 credits
In this course, educators become familiar with the fundamentals
of linguistics. Emphasis will be placed on phonology,
morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, sociolinguistics,
historical linguistics, and first and second language acquisition
theories. Educators will synthesize research-based methods of
incorporating linguistic principles into their teaching practice.
TSL-5500TE: School, Community, and Family
Culture for Current Practitioners
3 credits
In this course educators will explore school, community, and
family culture. Emphasis will be placed on the major goals,
principles, and concepts of multicultural education, including
multiple perspectives in culture and history as well as
understanding cultural and individual differences in teaching and
learning. Research is utilized to investigate the social,
community, cultural, and familial contexts that influence learning
and development.
TSL-5501TE: School, Community, and Family
Culture
3 credits
In this course, practitioners will explore school, community, and
family culture. Emphasis will be placed on the major goals,
principles, and concepts of multicultural education, including
multiple perspectives in culture and history and understanding
cultural and individual differences in teaching and learning.
Research is utilized to investigate the social, community, cultural,
and familial contexts that influence learning and development.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required.
TSL-5520TE: Literacy in Bilingual Settings for
Current Practitioner
3 credits
In this course, educators will examine approaches to developing
literacy in second and native language P-12 schools. Emphasis
will be placed on techniques for developing listening, speaking,
reading, and writing skills; developing language and literacy
through the content areas; using children's and young adult
multicultural literature; and assessing students' literacy
development in the second and native language. Strategies to
develop biliteracy in dual language programs will also be
discussed.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 300 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
TSL-5580TE: ELL and Bilingual Curriculum and
Methods of Instruction
3 credits
In this course, educators will review curricula and methods
appropriate for the teaching of subject areas in ELL and dual
language educational settings. Emphasis is placed on linguistic,
cognitive, developmental, and socio-cultural considerations in the
design of culturally responsive curricula; exploration of culturally
responsive instructional methods and materials for use in
language arts and content areas; and critique of current
commercially prepared products.
TSL-5650TE: ELL and Bilingual Assessment for
Current Practitioners
3 credits
In this course, educators will explore the principles of evaluating
and structuring assessments. Educators will design rubrics and
examine assessment for the purposes of identification, placement,
and instructional delivery. Emphasis will be placed on learning
ways to integrate assessment procedures into any curriculum, and
designing assessment tasks that allow for improved learning.
TSL-5670TE: Methods of Teaching and
Evaluating Special Needs ELLs
3 credits
In this course, educators will be introduced to the field of
bilingual and English language learners in special education.
They will engage in the study of the nature, psycho-social and
emotional needs of bilingual individuals and English learners
with disabilities. Emphasis will be given to the research in
bilingual and English language learner education in relation to
the complexity of the over- and-under-representation of bilingual
students in special education, issues in relation to differentiating
cultural and linguistic-related learning variations from special
education issues, and instructional implications.
TSL-5750TE: Spanish for Educators – Basic 3 credits
In the course, current practitioners develop strategies for
communicating with Spanish-speaking students and families.
Beginning Spanish grammar and basic phrases are used to
communicate in the educational environment and support
students’ wholistic growth. Current practitioners review methods
and resources for supporting Spanish-speaking students and
families.
TSL-5752TE: Spanish for Educators – Advanced 3 credits
In this course, current practitioners continue to work towards
effective communication with Spanish-speaking students and
families in the educational environment. Practitioners advance
their ability to use a variety of phrases and conjugated verbs.
Additionally, they will practice multiple forms of communication
with families in a variety of academic situations to support
student success.
TSL-5900TE: TESOL or BLE Practicum 3 credits
In this course educators have direct participation and experience
with ELLs or bilingual/dual language students at their chosen
level of instruction, within a P-12 educational setting. Educators
will practice teaching and management skills, conduct
assessments, and learn to communicate effectively with students,
parents, colleagues, administrators, and the larger community.
Practicum/field experience hours: 60. Fingerprint clearance
required.
