Science (SCI)
SCI-150: Critical Analyses in Science 4 credits
This course provides an introduction to the analysis skills
required for scientific problems. Students will study approaches
on inquiry, reasoning, and logic as applied to science, the
systematic use of data to make critical decisions, and the
expectations of science careers in healthcare or research.
SCI-210: Historical Landmarks in the
Natural Sciences
2 credits
This course provides a chronological overview of the most
impactful discoveries in the history of the various Natural
Science disciplines. Contemporary scientific practice is analyzed
in light of this historic framework.
SCI-211: Paradigm Shifts in the Natural
Sciences
2 credits
This course provides students with a thorough understanding of
the revolutionary theories and paradigm shifts in the Natural
Sciences. Historical, societal and philosophical contexts of these
revolutionary ideas are analyzed in depth.
SCI-220: Forensic Photography &
Reconstruction
4 credits
This course is designed to introduce students to the use of digital
cameras in crime scene documentation and reconstructing the
events of a crime based on the evidence recovered from the
scene. In the first half of the course, students will learn how to
manually operate digital cameras and how to photograph
different types of crime scenes and evidence under various
conditions. In the second half, students will reconstruct the events
of a crime using the scene evidence, basic evidence processing,
and deductive logic.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 468 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SCI-255: Crime Scene Processing 3 credits
This course focuses on the logic and critical analysis of assessing
and reconstructing crime scenes. Topics covered include the use
of techniques such as photography, rough sketch, refined sketch,
CAD programs, evidence-based crime scene reconstruction, and
thorough report writing. Topics such as evidence processing,
maintaining chain of custody, court testimony, and the ethical
considerations in forensic work are also covered. Prerequisite:
SCI-220. Co-Requisite: SCI-255L.
SCI-255L: Crime Scene Processing Lab 1 credits
Students use critical/ logical thinking skills to reconstruct a
variety of crime scenes and then record the crime scene using a
variety of methods. Accurate presentations of crime scenes are
evaluated as a measure of quality assurance and are required for
successful completion of the course. Students must refine a crime
scene rough sketch to a detailed (refined) sketch and produce a
written report of the crime scene processing that occurred.
Prerequisite: SCI-220. Co-Requisite: SCI-255.
SCI-300L: Laboratory Safety and Supervision 1 credits
This course surveys accepted safety principles in classroom
laboratories and their impact on the learning environment.
Students design a capstone lab learning unit in a science
discipline that incorporates proper lab safety protocols.
SCI-318: Research Methods & Design 2 credits
This course reviews and reinforces the fundamental components
of the scientific method. Emphasis will be placed on analysis of
scientific literature, with discussion of hypotheses, experimental
design, results, and possible alternative explanations and
experiments. Students will learn to critically review current
scientific literature and apply these examples to the proper design
of novel experiments. Prerequisites: BIO-181 and BIO-181L.
SCI-328∆҂: Science Methods and
Communication
4 credits
This writing intensive course requires students to analyze and
apply the scientific method in the context of the scientific
literature and other science communications. Students will read
and understand primary literature and will apply the
fundamentals of scientific writing and presentation. Prerequisites:
BIO-182 and BIO-182L.
SCI-328HN∆҂: Science Methods and
Communication
4 credits
This writing intensive course requires students to analyze and
apply the scientific method in the context of the scientific
literature and other science communications. Students will read
and understand primary literature and will apply the
fundamentals of scientific writing and presentation. Prerequisites:
BIO-182 and BIO-182L.
SCI-330: Physical Evidence Analysis 3 credits
Students explore the fundamentals of evidentiary recovery of
materials at crime scenes, methods for analysis of evidence at the
scene and in the crime laboratory, maintaining a chain of custody,
and quality assurance. Emphasis is placed on analytical and
comparative analyses conducted at the crime laboratory.
Prerequisite: SCI-255 & SCI-255L. Co-Requisite: SCI-330L.
SCI-330L: Physical Evidence Analysis Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of SCI-330 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course. The
laboratory focuses on the collection and laboratory analysis of
various types of forensic evidence that are commonly
encountered at crime scenes. Prerequisite: SCI-255 & SCI-255L.
Co-Requisite: SCI-330.
SCI-480: Methods of Teaching Science in
Secondary Schools
4 credits
This course is designed to acquaint the secondary teacher with
the curriculum and effective pedagogical techniques for the
teaching of science. Learners demonstrate understanding of key
science concepts and apply research-based strategies and
approaches to unit design and lesson planning, utilizing
instructional models discussed in the course. This course includes
laboratory experiences through field experiences. Practicum/field
experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: SEC-450.
SCI-495Ω: Capstone Project in the Sciences 4 credits
The capstone project is a culmination of the learning experiences
while a student in the science programs at Grand Canyon
University. Students discuss and write on current topics in their
field and prepare an extensive written scientific report or
proposal on select topics on the sciences, relevant to their
program of study. The capstone project needs to reflect synthesis
and integration of course content and good scientific practice.
This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisite: Senior status.
SCI-498∆Ω: Senior Capstone in Forensic
Science
4 credits
The writing intensive, capstone course provides an opportunity
for students to make contact with practitioners, investigate
special topics or specific areas of interest in forensic science, and
potentially participate in hands-on application through research
or internship experiences. Students are expected to address a
critical issue in evidence and forensic science. Skills in critical
thinking, analysis, and application of learned material are key to
success in this course. As part of the final process, students must
prepare a written report and orally present their findings in an
end-of-course seminar that is open to the public. Prerequisite:
Senior status.
Supply Chain Management
(SCM)
SCM-400∆
: Global Supply Chain Operations 4 credits
This course provides an introduction to the theories and practices
of global supply chain and operations management, as well as an
understanding of basic tools and methods of managing operations
and supply chains. Students apply critical thinking skills to solve
business problems using industry-accepted operations
management techniques. Prerequisite: BUS-352 or ESG-374.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 469 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SCM-410: Lean and Quality Management 4 credits
This course examines quantitative and qualitative continuous
process improvement techniques, including statistical process
control (SPC), Six Sigma, and lean, and managing change with
improvement initiatives. Students identify a project, apply the
correct tools, and manage a process improvement project.
Prerequisite: BUS-352 or ESG-374.
SCM-450: Procurement and Global Supply
Chain Management
4 credits
This course covers the concepts of purchasing, inventory
management, and logistics in a supply chain. Students focus on
both upstream and downstream activities related to the full
supply chain cycle, including contracting and negotiating
activities. Prerequisite: SCM-400.
SCM-452: Global Logistics and
Transportation Management
4 credits
This course focuses on managing both inbound and outbound
transportation of materials and finished goods domestically and
internationally. Students learn and apply logistics models and
tools to solve distribution problems in the supply chain.
Prerequisites: BUS-352, MAT-154, and SCM-400.
SCM-454: Manufacturing Planning and
Control Systems
4 credits
This course focuses on the tactical use of planning and control
tools and systems to effectively manage resources in a
manufacturing operation as part of a supply chain. Students
examine the overall function of planning and control systems
with detailed application of management tools within the
production life cycle. Prerequisite: SCM-400.
SCM-460: Supply Chain Modeling and
Analysis
4 credits
This course exposes students to the basic requirements of
designing and operating supply chains using a variety of
quantitative models for analysis. This course emphasizes
application, development, and analysis of mathematical models
in different supply chain scenarios to solve business problems.
Prerequisite: BUS-352, SCM-400, SCM-452.
School Counseling (SCN)
SCN-501Ω: Introduction to Graduate Studies
and Foundations of School
Counseling
3 credits
This course begins by acquainting counselors in training with the
GCU learning management system, while preparing them to be
successful graduate-level counselors in training and future school
counselors. Beginning with the history of school counselors,
counselors in training then explore and self-reflect on the needed
traits to be effective school counselors in a PK-12 setting. An
introductory discussion on ethics, credentialing and licensure,
and professional organizations, particularly the American School
Counseling Association (ASCA), rounds out the course.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance
not required.
SCN-505Ω: Organization and Administration
of a School Counseling Program
3 credits
This course presents an overview for developing, implementing,
and maintaining a school counseling program in the PK-12
setting. Theoretical frameworks of comprehensive school
counseling programs are introduced, including a specific focus on
the American School Counseling Association (ASCA) National
Model for developing a comprehensive school counseling
program. Topics include multicultural organizational
development, school-based consultation, working in
multidisciplinary teams, ethical and legal issues, and advocacy
leadership. The following experiential learning hours are in
addition to your practicum and internship direct and indirect
hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 5. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SCN-510Ω: Counseling for College and Career 3 credits
This course emphasizes the vital role school counselors play in
helping students envision their post-secondary school careers.
Theoretical models of career counseling are presented, as well as
the development of comprehensive, holistic career development
programs; career exploration strategies for PK-12 students; and
the utilization of career selection tools and materials. Ethical and
legal considerations are also explored, including special
considerations for meeting the needs of specific populations
within the PK-12 school settings. The following experiential
learning hours are in addition to your practicum and internship
direct and indirect hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 10.
Fingerprint clearance required.
SCN-600Ω: School Counseling Practicum 3 credits
This course is a supervised field experience that takes place in
either an elementary, middle, or high school setting. During this
experience, learners begin by observing day-to-day counseling
routines and have the ability to apply listening skills, helping
theories, and techniques. The practicum is performed under the
supervision of a faculty member and a clinical site supervisor
approved by the college or university. Documentation of 100
hours (40 of the 100 hours must be direct service) of school
counseling related activities is submitted electronically for
verification and tracking. State licensure requirements may
mandate additional hours. Counseling interns must review and
adhere to their state board's additional requirements.
Practicum/field experience hours: 100. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisites: SCN-505; a GPA of 3.0 or better;
maintenance of student professional liability insurance in the
amount of $1 million, $3 million; and college approval.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 470 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SCN-605Ω: School Counseling Internship I 3 credits
In this internship course, counseling interns engage in
comprehensive work where they engage in direct service contact
with students, families, and school personnel. The internship is
performed under the supervision of a faculty member and a
clinical site supervisor approved by the college or university.
Documentation of 200 hours (80 of the 200 hours must be direct
service) of school counseling related activities is submitted
electronically for verification and tracking. State licensure
requirements may mandate additional hours. Counseling interns
must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. SCITs may not progress to the SCN-615 School
Counseling Internship II course without the required field
experience hours submitted and successful completion of all
course requirements in the SCN-605 School Counseling
Internship I course. No practicum or internship courses may
overlap or be taken concurrently. Practicum/field experience
hours: 200. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisites: SCN600; a GPA of 3.0 or better; maintenance of student professional
liability insurance in the amount of $1 million, $3 million; and
college approval.
SCN-610Ω: Contemporary Issues in School
Counseling
3 credits
This course provides an overview of current issues facing school
counselors in the PK-12 setting. Strategies for addressing various
problems are explored. Topics include bullying and violence
prevention, supporting impoverished and marginalized students,
and the increasing role of data and accountability in schools,
among others. Candidates explore these present and pressing
issues and determine their roles as responsive and flexible
professionals in addressing issues as they occur. The following
experiential learning hours are in addition to your practicum and
internship direct and indirect hours. Practicum/field experience
hours: 5. Fingerprint clearance required.
SCN-615Ω: School Counseling Internship II 3 credits
In this internship course, counseling interns engage in
comprehensive work where they engage in direct service contact
with students, families, and school personnel. The internship is
performed under the supervision of a faculty member and a
clinical site supervisor approved by the college or university.
Documentation of 200 hours (80 of the 200 hours must be direct
service) of school counseling related activities is submitted
electronically for verification and tracking. State licensure
requirements may mandate additional hours. Counseling interns
must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. SCITs may not progress to the SCN-615 School
Counseling Internship II course without the required field
experience hours submitted and successful completion of all
course requirements in the SCN-605 School Counseling
Internship I course. No practicum or internship courses may
overlap or be taken concurrently. Practicum/field experience
hours: 200. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisites: SCN605; a GPA of 3.0 or better; maintenance of student professional
liability insurance in the amount of $1 million, $3 million; and
college approval.
SCN-620Ω: Educational Tests and
Measurements
3 credits
This course provides an overview of various tests and
measurements commonly used in education. Beginning with
basic statistical concepts, counseling interns explore how
assessments can inform education and counseling practices.
Topics cover aspects of creation, administration, and
interpretation of various assessments in PK-12 setting, including
discussions of standardized tests, intelligence and aptitude tests
and college and career assessments. The following experiential
learning hours are in addition to your practicum and internship
direct and indirect hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 5.
Fingerprint clearance required.
SCN-625Ω: School Counseling Internship III 3 credits
In this internship course, learners engage in comprehensive work
where they have the opportunity to engage in direct service
contact with students, families, and school personnel. The
internship is performed under the supervision of a faculty
member and a clinical site supervisor approved by the college or
university. Documentation of 200 hours (80 of the 200 hours
must be direct service) of school counseling related activities is
submitted electronically for verification and tracking. State
licensure requirements may mandate additional hours. Candidates
must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. The SCN-625 School Counseling Internship III
course may not be taken until the SCIT has successfully
completed SCN-600, SCN-605, and SCN-615. SCITs may not
complete the school counseling program without the required
field experience hours submitted and successful completion of all
course requirements in the School Counseling Internship III
course. No practicum or internship courses may overlap or be
taken concurrently. Practicum/field experience hours: 200.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisites: SCN-615; a GPA of
3.0 or better; maintenance of student professional liability
insurance in the amount of $1 million, $3 million; and college
approval.
Software Design and Architecture
(SDD)
SDD-610: Software Design and Architecture 4 credits
This course involves the study of UML, design patterns, software
design principles, and system architecture. Also covered are the
study and concepts related to architecture frameworks, technical
communication, making informed ethical decisions during the
software design phase, and future trends in software design.
Prerequisite: SWE-520.
Software Design and
Development (SDD)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 471 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SDD-620: Advanced Database Design and
Administration
4 credits
This course involves the study of concepts, principles and scope
of advanced database design and administration. This course
includes conceptual, logical, and physical database design,
database analysis and selection during the software design phase,
and typical administrative database duties that include but are not
limited to user administration, performance tuning, and
backup/restore. Also covered are the study of how to make
informed ethical decisions during the software design phase and
the future trends in database design. Prerequisite: Prerequisite:
SWE-540.
SDD-630: Mobile Software Development 4 credits
This course involves the study of the design and development of
mobile applications. Students will learn how to build a user
interface and connect it to programmable events, integration of
various mobile phone services, working with data in local
databases and remote servers, and the best practices of software
design in the mobile environment. Prerequisite: SWE-520.
SDD-640: Secure Coding 4 credits
This course involves the study of concepts, principles, and best
secure coding practices for software developers. The course
studies the most common vulnerabilities found in application
code along with the tools and techniques for identifying and
resolving those vulnerabilities. Prerequisite: SDD-630.
SDD-680: Software Maintenance and Testing 4 credits
This course involves the study of concepts, processes, tools, and
best practices when maintaining and testing existing software.
Prerequisite: SDD-640.
Secondary Education (SEC)
SEC-201: Early Adolescent and Adolescent
Psychology
4 credits
This course is designed to assist teacher candidates in
understanding theories and principles of psychology that describe
the growth and development of early adolescents and
adolescents, including cognitive, linguistic, social, emotional, and
physical areas. This course enables teacher candidates to build
foundational knowledge for constructing learning opportunities
and environments that support individual students’ development,
acquisition of knowledge and skills, and motivation.
Practicum/field experience hours: 5. Fingerprint clearance not
required.
SEC-345: Content Area Literacy for Middle
and Secondary Teachers
4 credits
In this course, teacher candidates evaluate and utilize methods
and materials for reading and writing in order to teach literacy
skills in the middle and secondary grades. Emphasis is placed on
making meaning from a variety of text sources including young
adult literature, technical, informational, environmental, and
media. Candidates design content-based reading and writing
experiences using diverse works for adolescents, focused text
selection, and electronic database media resources for middleand secondary-grade classrooms. A focus on language and
cultural diversity is included. Practicum/field experience hours:
15. Fingerprint Clearance required.
SEC-350: Differentiated Literacy Instruction:
Assessment, Remediation &
Intervention
4 credits
Teacher candidates explore instructional strategies for delivering
differentiated instruction to promote reading and writing
proficiency. Language and literacy development is examined to
inform assessment, intervention, and remediation practices to
support middle to high school readers of diverse ability levels,
including students with dyslexia and other reading disabilities.
Using this foundational knowledge, teacher candidates will
select, adapt, and use research-based instructional strategies and
interventions with attention focused on literacy in academic
curricula to advance learning for adolescent students.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SEC-355: Middle and Secondary Curriculum
and Assessment
4 credits
In this course, teacher candidates differentiate instruction based
on knowledge of students, learning theory, and curricular goals.
Major emphasis is given to planning instructional objectives and
lessons, sequencing, and assessing objectives, utilizing formal
and informal assessment strategies that address individual
students' needs. Practicum/field experience hours: 5. Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisite: SEC-201.
SEC-450: Data-Driven Instructional Methods
for Middle and Secondary Teachers
4 credits
In this course, teacher candidates study methods and materials
related to teaching middle- and secondary-grade students.
Emphasis is placed on using data to evaluate and modify
instruction. Teaching methodologies encourage problem solving,
active participation, meeting diverse students’ needs, and
professional collaboration. Practicum/field experience hours: 15.
Fingerprint Clearance required. Prerequisite: SEC-355.
SEC-455: Classroom Engagement and
Management for Middle and
Secondary Teachers
4 credits
This course prepares teacher candidates to create and manage
positive, productive middle- and secondary-grade classroom
environments with diverse students. Candidates develop a
comprehensive understanding of the learning and behavior
principles that underlie effective classroom management and
student engagement in order to design and promote an effective
classroom management program. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SEC-201.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 472 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SEC-490Ω: Student Teaching for Secondary
Education
8 credits
Teacher candidates are engaged in the student teaching
experience that includes practical classroom experiences,
research, analysis, and teaching to support the creation of a
Student Teaching Evaluation of Performance (STEP). Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisites: Successful completion of all
courses in POS and content area; a 2.8 GPA; successful
completion of NES or your state’s mandated content area exams;
and approval and placement by the College of Education Office
of Clinical Practice. All paperwork for student teaching must be
submitted by the due date the semester prior to student teaching.
SEC-502: Foundations in Secondary
Education for Graduate Students
3 credits
Teacher candidates will survey the philosophical, historical, and
sociological influences upon which secondary educational
theories and practices are constructed and explore a variety of the
common issues, trends, and opportunities that professional
educators face in the field. Candidates will prepare for the
graduate learning experience at Grand Canyon University by
developing and strengthening the skills necessary to succeed as
graduate students in the College of Education. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
SEC-505: Adolescent Development and
Psychology
3 credits
Teacher candidates will survey how adolescents grow and
develop, recognizing that patterns of learning and development
vary individually within and across the cognitive,
social/emotional, and physical areas. This survey of the seminal
concepts, principles, theories, and research related to
development of adolescents will allow candidates to build
foundational knowledge for constructing learning opportunities
that support individual students' development, acquisition of
knowledge, and motivation. Practicum/field experience hours:
15. Fingerprint clearance not required. Prerequisite: SEC-501.
SEC-506: Early Adolescent and Adolescent
Psychology
3 credits
Teacher candidates will survey how early adolescents and
adolescents grow and develop, recognizing that patterns of
learning and development vary individually within and across the
cognitive, social/emotional, and physical areas. This survey of
the seminal concepts, principles, theories, and research related to
development of adolescents will allow candidates to build
foundational knowledge for constructing learning opportunities
that support individual students’ development, acquisition of
knowledge, and motivation. Practicum/field experience hours:
None. Fingerprint clearance not required. Prerequisite: SEC-501
or SEC-502.
SEC-510: Creating and Managing Engaging
Learning Environments
3 credits
This course is designed to allow the teacher candidate the
opportunity to learn techniques involved in the successful
engagement and management of a learning environment. Major
emphasis is placed to the establishment of a realistic discipline
plan to manage student behavior, as well as engagement and
management techniques and strategies to maximize instructional
time, classroom procedures, and physical space. Practicum/field
experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: SEC-501 or SEC-502.
SEC-515: Assessment and Evaluation for
Middle and High School Teachers
3 credits
Teacher candidates will investigate multiple methods of
assessment that support student engagement, monitoring student
progress, and guiding decision-making. Candidates will build
foundational knowledge regarding formal and informal
assessment strategies for planning, evaluating, and strengthening
instruction to promote continuous intellectual, social, emotional,
and physical development of each student. Practicum/field
experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance required.
SEC-516: Assessment and Evaluation for
Humanities Teachers
3 credits
Teacher candidates will investigate multiple methods of
assessment that support student engagement, monitor student
progress, and guide decision-making, specifically to Humanities
classrooms. Candidates will build foundational knowledge
regarding formal and informal assessment strategies for planning,
evaluating, and strengthening instruction to promote continuous
intellectual, social, emotional, and physical development of each
student. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required.
SEC-517: Assessment and Evaluation for
STEM Teachers
3 credits
Teacher candidates will investigate multiple methods of
assessment that support student engagement, monitor student
progress, and guide decision-making, specifically to STEM
classrooms. Candidates will build foundational knowledge
regarding formal and informal assessment strategies for planning,
evaluating, and strengthening instruction to promote continuous
intellectual, social, emotional, and physical development of each
student. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 473 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SEC-520: Integrating STEM Methods for
Middle and High School
Instruction
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine fundamental concepts of science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics. Teacher candidates
build foundational knowledge on a variety of age-appropriate
inquiry-based instructional strategies to teach science, to build
student understanding of personal and social applications, to
convey the nature of science, and student development for the
practice of skills that contribute to good health. Emphasis is
placed on developing a deep understanding of the major concepts
and procedures that define number and operations, algebra,
geometry, measurement, and data analysis and probability and to
build skills to apply knowledge in meaningful ways. Teacher
candidates will build foundational knowledge on integrating
engineering and technology concepts in Math and Science
curriculum. Practicum/field experience hours: 12. Fingerprint
clearance required.
SEC-525: Methods and Strategies for Middle
and High School Teachers
3 credits
This course is designed to foster application of proven teaching
and learning methodologies for both instructor and student in
order to make appropriate and data-driven decisions about all
aspects of teaching. Major emphasis is focused on planning
instructional objectives and lessons, assessing objectives, and
developing teaching methodology that encourages problem
solving, active participation, and assessment. Practicum/field
experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: SEC-515 or SEC-516 or SEC-517.
SEC-530: Integrating Humanities Methods
for Middle and High School
Instruction
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine a variety of instructional strategies
to encourage students to develop a deeper understanding of the
major concepts contained within Social Studies, English
Language Arts, and the Arts through modes of inquiry from the
integrated study of history, geography, the social sciences,
reading, writing, oral language, and their influences that build
skills to apply knowledge in meaningful ways. Teacher
candidates integrate instructional content, academic functions,
formative and summative assessments, media and technology to
engage learning. Teacher candidates apply their foundational
knowledge of reading, language, and child development to teach
reading, writing, speaking, viewing, listening, and
comprehension skills to middle and high school students.
Candidates also help these students successfully apply their
developing skills to different situations, materials, and ideas.
Practicum/field experience hours: 12. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SEC-540: Adolescent Literacy 3 credits
This course is designed to develop a broad range of researchbased reading methodologies to enhance the learning strategies of
middle and secondary school students. Major emphasis is placed
on the use of reading strategies for culturally and socially diverse
classrooms, including the use of literacy-based instruction in all
content areas and understanding, evaluating, and promoting
effective pedagogy in adolescent literacy. The development and
use of integrated and thematic approaches of instruction are
addressed. Teacher candidates are expected to observe and assist
in a grade 5-12 classroom while taking this course.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SEC-545: Differentiated Literacy Instruction:
Assessment, Remediation &
Intervention
3 credits
Teacher candidates explore research-based strategies for
delivering differentiated reading instruction to promote reading
proficiency. Language and literacy development is examined to
inform assessment, remediation and intervention practices to
support middle to high school readers and ability levels,
including students with dyslexia and other reading disabilities.
Using this foundational knowledge, teacher candidates will
select, adapt, and use research-based instructional strategies and
interventions with attention focused on reading in academic
curricula to advance learning for adolescent students.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SEC-580: Curriculum and Instructional
Planning for Middle and High
School Teachers
3 credits
Various orientations to curriculum development and assessment
are investigated and elements of model curricula are examined.
Emphasis is placed on understanding current structures and
trends in high schools, as well as critical issues, as these relate to
curriculum and assessment. Course content is strategically
planned to enable participants to make informed curriculum
decisions to meet the needs of a diverse student population. Also
emphasized is the alignment of educational objectives to
standards and building both formative and summative
assessments, including rubrics to analyze student learning. This
course focuses on the principles and practices involved in
curriculum design. Teacher candidates develop their own
curriculum unit. Practicum/field experience hours: 15.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SEC-540 or SEC545.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 474 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SEC-581: Middle and Secondary Curriculum
and Instruction for Humanities
Teachers
3 credits
Various orientations to curriculum development and assessment
are investigated and elements of model curricula are examined
specific to the areas of Humanities. Emphasis is placed on
understanding current structures and trends in middle and high
schools, as well as critical issues, as these relate to curriculum
and assessment. Course content is strategically planned to enable
participants to make informed curriculum decisions in
Humanities classrooms to meet the needs of a diverse student
population. Also emphasized is the alignment of educational
objectives to standards and building both formative and
summative assessments, including rubrics to analyze student
learning. This course focuses on the principles and practices
involved in curriculum design for Humanities classrooms.
Teacher candidates develop their own curriculum unit.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SEC-582: Middle and Secondary Curriculum
and Instruction for STEM
Teachers
3 credits
Various orientations to curriculum development and assessment
are investigated and elements of model curricula are examined
specific to the areas of STEM. Emphasis is placed on
understanding current structures and trends in middle and high
schools, as well as critical issues, as these relate to curriculum
and assessment. Course content is strategically planned to enable
participants to make informed curriculum decisions in STEM
classrooms to meet the needs of a diverse student population.
Also emphasized is the alignment of educational objectives to
standards and building both formative and summative
assessments, including rubrics to analyze student learning. This
course focuses on the principles and practices involved in
curriculum design for STEM classrooms. Teacher candidates
develop their own curriculum unit. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
SEC-590Ω: Student Teaching: Secondary
Education
8 credits
Teacher candidates are engaged in the student teaching
experience that includes practical classroom experiences,
research, analysis, and teaching to support the creation of a
Student Teaching Evaluation of Performance (STEP). Fingerprint
clearance required. Fingerprint clearance required.
Secondary Education (SED)
SED-480NAΩ: Student Teaching: Secondary
Session A
6 credits
Session A is one of two 8 week sessions of the student teaching
experience. Teacher candidates are engaged in the student
teaching experience that includes practical classroom
experiences, research, analysis, and teaching to support the
creation of a Student Teaching Performance of Evaluation
(STEP). Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisites: Successful
completion of all courses in POS and content area; a 2.8 GPA;
successful completion of NES or your state’s mandated content
area exams; and approval and placement by the College of
Education Office of Clinical Practice. All paperwork for student
teaching must be submitted by the due date the semester prior to
student teaching. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisites:
Successful completion of all courses in POS and content area;
senior status; a 2.8 GPA; successful completion of state mandated
basic skills and content area exams or Praxis I® (Basic Skills)
and Praxis II® (Content Area); and approval and placement by
Office of Clinical Practice. Arizona residents will be required to
take the Arizona Educator Proficiency Assessment (AEPA). All
paperwork for student teaching must be submitted by the due date
the semester prior to student teaching.
SED-480NB∆Ω:Student Teaching: Secondary
Session B
6 credits
This session is a continuation of Session A. Prerequisite: SED480NA.
SED-580NBΩ: Student Teaching: Secondary
Session B
6 credits
This session is a continuation of Session A. Prerequisite: SED580NA.
Sociology (SOC)
SOC-100: Everyday Sociology 4 credits
This course surveys concepts, theories, and methods of applied
sociology in everyday life. Emphasis is placed on demonstrating
the impact of sociological concepts on human behaviors and
interactions in society.
SOC-102: Principles of Sociology 4 credits
This course presents a survey of the concepts, theories, and
methods used by sociologists to describe and explain the effects
of social structure on human behavior. It emphasizes the
understanding and use of the sociological perspective in everyday
life.
SOC-102XV: Principles of Sociology 4 credits
This course presents a survey of the concepts, theories, and
methods used by sociologists to describe and explain the effects
of social structure on human behavior. It emphasizes the
understanding and use of the sociological perspective in everyday
life.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 475 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SOC-220: Social Problems 4 credits
This course provides a survey of the various issues and problems
faced by contemporary American society, including crime, drug
abuse, sexual variance, poverty, overpopulation, and family
relations. Emphasis is placed upon how these problems arise
from and are perpetuated by modern social structure.
SOC-315: Cultural Anthropology 4 credits
This course provides a study of the variety of cultures that have
developed in human society. Attention is given to preliterate
peoples in comparison with contemporary and other cultures. The
origin and development of the cultures, their technologies,
economies, social organizations, and beliefs are surveyed.
SOC-320҂: Marriage and Family 4 credits
This course is designed as a practical look at marriage and family
life with emphasis on understanding social science research on
marriage and family life and its present and future applications to
the lives of students.
SOC-320HN҂:Marriage and Family 4 credits
This course is designed as a practical look at marriage and family
life with emphasis on understanding social science research on
marriage and family life and its present and future applications to
the lives of students.
SOC-330: Globalization 4 credits
This course integrates globalization concepts and theory with the
social reality of the global world. The course leads the students to
understand globalization’s economic, cultural, political,
environmental, and social inequality characteristics. Upon
completion of the course students gain a definitional and
conceptual framework of globalization and its mechanisms. The
course places emphasis on the student as a global citizen.
Students develop a beginning framework of analysis to engage
their global world.
SOC-372: Introduction to Social Work 4 credits
This course provides the foundation for students to understand
the profession of social work, the social welfare system, and
social service programs. Students examine the theoretical
perspectives of social work and social welfare. They evaluate
how historical and theoretical perspectives influence social
service systems, practice, and programs. In a broad overview,
students examine social work ethics, generalist practice, policy
analysis and practice, social service programs, and advocacy.
SOC-386∆҂: Human Behavior and the Social
Environment
4 credits
This writing intensive course provides the foundation for the
generalist practice of social work. It connects theories from a
sociological, psychological, and social work perspective with an
emphasis on social systems theory. Students examine personenvironment interactions through a theoretical framework of
critical assessment based on systems and roles. In this course,
students apply a variety of theories to current social issues.
Through the integration and application of social systems theory,
students engage in competency-based skill development for
generalist social work practice.
SOC386HN∆҂:
Human Behavior and the Social
Environment
4 credits
This writing intensive course provides the foundation for the
generalist practice of social work. It connects theories from a
sociological, psychological, and social work perspective with an
emphasis on social systems theory. Students examine personenvironment interactions through a theoretical framework of
critical assessment based on systems and roles. In this course,
students apply a variety of theories to current social issues.
Through the integration and application of social systems theory,
students engage in competency-based skill development for
generalist social work practice.
SOC-400Ω: Social Research and Statistics 4 credits
This course provides an explanation of the various methods used
by social scientists to find answers to the questions posed by their
subject matter, including basic terminology and concepts and
practice using methods such as surveys, experiments, field
research, and evaluation research, as well as some unobtrusive
methods. An introduction to analysis of data obtained from
research is also included.
SOC-412: Sociology of Religion 4 credits
This course provides students with a framework to examine
religious organizations as a part of a larger social order. It
introduces basic concepts in the sociology of religion and briefly
surveys the historical and social landscape of religion. The goal
of the course is to analyze religious beliefs, practices, and
organizations from a sociological perspective, with a primary
focus on religion in the contemporary United States.
SOC-415: American Minority Peoples 4 credits
This course provides a study of the various minority groups in the
United States and their sociological significance in the history of
the nation and current culture. The history and status of American
immigration policy are also considered.
SOC-417∆҂: Sociological Theory 4 credits
This writing-intensive course is a survey of major sociological
theories and theorists influencing the discipline of sociology.
Immersion in both classical as well as contemporary theoretical
perspectives provides a solid foundation to analyze and apply
social patterns and forces that influence and shape society.
SOC417HN∆҂:
Sociological Theory 4 credits
This writing intensive course is a survey of the major theorists
whose works and thoughts have influenced and guided the
academic discipline of sociology. The emphasis is placed on the
founders of sociological theory from the 19th century but
attention is also given to those who followed in their footsteps in
the 20th and 21st centuries.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 476 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SOC-436∆҂: Stratification and Inequality in a
Diverse Society
4 credits
This writing intensive course examines the theoretical, historical,
and conceptual frameworks of social stratification and social
inequality within the context of class, race and ethnicity, and
gender. Students analyze the effect of historical events upon
social inequality and the impact of those events on current trends
within social institutions. Students examine strategies for change
relative to social inequality and marginalization of diverse
groups. Upon course completion, students are able to explain and
evaluate the effects of social stratification and inequality on class,
race and ethnicity, and gender in the United States. Prerequisite:
SOC-400.
SOC-445: Case Management 4 credits
This course introduces the student to entry-level case
management skills. Students identify the various roles and
functions of a case manager. A primary focus of this course is the
case management process, including how to track and manage a
client case load. Through case study analysis, students determine
appropriate client assessment techniques and problem-solving
strategies. Students explore case manager roles and case
management styles in a variety of client populations and
nonprofit human service agencies. Students learn to differentiate
roles, functions, and styles based on their assessment of the
client’s needs and a clear understanding of the agency’s mission,
policies, and programs. Prerequisite: SOC-372.
SOC-449: Direct Practice 4 credits
This course introduces the student to the fundamental social work
skill of direct practice. The course covers the social work
“helping process” as the foundational framework for social work
practice. The course teaches basic direct practice skills
including—intake, assessment, treatment, evaluation, and
termination. The course also exposes students to theory-directed
social work practice and cultural competency in interviewing.
Prerequisite: SOC-372.
SOC-480Ω: Sociology and Social Work
Capstone
4 credits
This course integrates social work knowledge, skills, theory,
evidence-based practice, values, and ethics with sociological
concepts of society and culture through the examination of the
social work client (individual, family, community, society)
experience. The course compares and contrasts social work and
sociological concepts with knowledge required for graduate
school and careers in the field of social work. The course
culminates with a student portfolio that demonstrates acquired
skills and knowledge. This capstone course needs to be
completed at the end of program. Prerequisites: SOC-372, SOC400, and SOC-436.
SOC-481Ω: Sociology Capstone 4 credits
This course culminates in the application of program knowledge
and skill acquisition of sociological perspectives and analysis as
they relate to the various content areas. Students apply theory and
practical application strategies as they complete a research
project that demonstrates critical thinking, using both Christian
worldview, the scientific method, and sociological
theory/perspectives about the effects of society upon human
social behavior and human social behavior’s impact upon society.
Upon course completion, students possess basic skills to engage
the social world through a well-developed sociological toolkit.
This capstone course needs to be completed at the end of
program. Prerequisite: SOC-400.
SOC-500: Social Theory 4 credits
In this course, students analyze the works of the great thinkers
within the field of sociology. The three major schools of thought
are examined in depth, including classical and modern theories of
sociology. Students select sociological topics and engage in
comparative analysis of the theories.
SOC-502: Sociology Today 4 credits
This course is designed to provide an overview of the field of
sociology, especially for those whose previous exposure to
sociology was some time ago. The course examines several major
areas of interest to sociologists as well as the theories and types
of research that sociologists often use to gain new knowledge in
this academic discipline.
SOC-505: Sociology of the Family 4 credits
This course takes a sociocultural perspective on the institution of
the family. The role of the family within the functioning of
society is examined. The course also compares the institution of
the family around the world.
SOC-510: Stratification from Global
Perspectives
4 credits
This course examines social stratification within specific
countries and around the globe. The course focuses on world
poverty, world political order, and social justice on the world
stage.
SOC-515: Social Change and Development 4 credits
The course takes a sociohistorical perspective on societal change.
An in-depth look at how social movements create or resist social
change is provided.
SOC-520: Sociology and Pedagogy in the
University
4 credits
This course explores the intersection of sociology and pedagogy
in the university setting. Pedagogical theory and elements of
sociology are examined. Through pedagogical analysis, students
look at the discipline of sociology and build a pedagogy for
sociology in the university setting. The course uses an
Introduction to Sociology textbook to analyze and scaffold an
Introduction to Sociology course.
Spanish (SPA)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 477 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPA-104: Elementary Spanish I 4 credits
This course builds a foundation in the language development
skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. The course
textbook is supported by an extensive workbook and online lab
which allows students to hear Spanish spoken by native speakers.
Students practice their spoken Spanish through face-to-face
activities or by recorded wave files. Additionally students are
prompted to growth in global awareness through participation in
cultural events in their communities, reviewing movies set in
Hispanic cultural settings, and reading books in English by
Hispanic authors about Hispanic culture.
SPA-105: Elementary Spanish II 4 credits
This course is a continuation of SPA-104. Prerequisite: SPA-104.
SPA-214: Intermediate Spanish I 4 credits
This course further builds Spanish vocabulary and language
structure. Oral practice, short compositions, textbook readings,
and cultural activities are stressed. Will include some study of
Spanish-language cultures. Prerequisite: SPA-105.
SPA-224: Intermediate Spanish II 4 credits
This course continues to build on vocabulary, language structure,
oration and composition skills. Will include some study of
Spanish-language cultures. Prerequisite: SPA-214.
SPA-309: Spanish Conversation 4 credits
This course helps students speak with fluency and standard
pronunciation, to develop facility in the language, and to become
conversant with culture, common expression, and everyday
usage. This course includes some study of Spanish-language
cultures. Prerequisite: SPA-224.
SPA-310҂: Spanish Composition and
Grammar
4 credits
This course helps the student express a wide range of style in
writing: description, narration, persuasion, comparison/contrast,
and dialogue through careful drafting and editing of content,
grammar, and orthography. Will include some study of Spanishlanguage cultures. Prerequisite: SPA-224.
SPA-310HN҂: Spanish Composition and
Grammar
4 credits
This course helps the student express a wide range of style in
writing: description, narration, persuasion, comparison/contrast,
and dialogue through careful drafting and editing of content,
grammar, and orthography. Will include some study of Spanishlanguage cultures. Prerequisite: SPA-224.
SPA-320҂: Contemporary Issues 4 credits
This course is designed to discuss and analyze contemporary
events and issues in the Spanish-speaking world. Prerequisite:
SPA-309.
SPA-320HN҂: Contemporary Issues 4 credits
This course is designed to discuss and analyze contemporary
events and issues in the Spanish-speaking world. Prerequisite:
SPA-309.
SPA-341∆: Introduction to Literature in
Spanish
4 credits
This writing-intensive course provides an introduction to literary
concepts, terminology, and theory with application to poetic,
dramatic, and prose texts. This course includes some study of
Spanish-language cultures. Prerequisite: SPA-310.
SPA-410҂Ω: Theory and Methodology for
Translation and Interpretation
4 credits
This course provides an overview of the historical evolution of
translation and interpretation across cultures. It offers important
information on the function and feasibility in both fields.
Prerequisite: SPA-310.
SPA-410HN҂:Theory and Methodology for
Translation and Interpretation
4 credits
This course provides an overview of the historical evolution of
translation and interpretation across cultures. It offers important
information on the function and feasibility in both fields.
SPA-420Ω: Spanish for Professions I 4 credits
This course introduces practical terminology and professional
language in everyday, on-the-job situations from a cross-cultural
perspective. Prerequisite: SPA-310.
SPA-430Ω: Spanish for Professions II 4 credits
This course further explores practical terminology and
professional language in everyday, on-the-job situations from a
cross-cultural perspective in various professional fields.
SPA-440҂Ω: Web-Based Resources and
Technology for Translation and
Interpretation
4 credits
This course explores various software used to aid translators and
interpreters to work faster and more accurately. Prerequisite:
SPA-310.
SPA-440HN҂:Web-Based Resources and
Technology for Translation and
Interpretation
4 credits
This course explores software such as SDL Trados and Atril to
aid translators to work faster and more accurately.
SPA-450∆Ω: Spanish Capstone 4 credits
This writing-intensive course provides an opportunity to produce
multiple major works of translation in the areas of: Medical,
Legal, Business, and Educational Spanish in both Peninsular and
Latin American dialects. This capstone course needs to be
completed at the end of program. Prerequisites: SPA-410 and
SPA-420.
Special Education (SPD)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 478 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-200҂
: Survey of Special Education: Mild
to Moderate Disabilities
4 credits
Teacher candidates are introduced to the educational needs of
students with mild to moderate disabilities and their families,
including the definitions, characteristics, prevalence, causes and
educational approaches to these disabilities and disorders.
Teacher candidates will identify cognitive, linguistic, social and
emotional patterns of learning and development for students with
mild to moderate disabilities. Teacher candidates also survey the
special education process involving the application of various
laws and regulations. Practicum/field experience hours: 5.
Fingerprint clearance not required.
SPD-200HN҂
: Survey of Special Education: Mild
to Moderate Disabilities
4 credits
Teacher candidates are introduced to the educational needs of
students with mild to moderate disabilities and their families,
including the definitions, characteristics, prevalence, causes and
educational approaches to these disabilities and disorders.
Teacher candidates will identify cognitive, linguistic, social and
emotional patterns of learning and development for students with
mild to moderate disabilities. Teacher candidates also survey the
special education process involving the application of various
laws and regulations. Practicum/field experience hours: 5.
Fingerprint clearance required.
SPD-300: Professional, Ethical and Legal
Practices and Policies in Special
Education
4 credits
Teacher candidates survey professional ethical principles,
professional practice standards, law and regulations that guide
special educators. Teacher candidates build upon the foundational
knowledge to understand the multiple roles and complex
situations of professional practice that require attention to a
variety of legal, professional and ethical issues. Practicum/field
experience hours: 5. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite:
SPD-200.
SPD-310: Collaborations and
Communications in Special
Education
4 credits
Teacher candidates survey theories and models for effective
collaborations and communications with students with
exceptionalities, colleagues, other school professionals, families
and community members. In addition, teacher candidates apply
collaboration and communication theories and models,
incorporating technology, across a wide range of contexts to
ensure active involvement in the education process for students
with exceptionalities. Practicum/field experience hours: 5.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-200.
SPD-320: Assessment and Eligibility in
Special Education: MMD
4 credits
Teacher candidates will investigate diagnostic and assessment
tools. Teacher candidates will build foundational knowledge
regarding the use of multiple methods of assessment and datasources for diagnostic and educational decisions for individuals
with mild to moderate disabilities. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint Clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-200.
SPD-330: Language Development with Mild
to Moderate Disabilities and
Disorders
4 credits
Teacher candidates examine typical and atypical language
development, and associated disabilities and disorders. Teacher
candidates investigate the use of augmentative and alternative
assistive technology, modifications and accommodations to
enhance the communication skills of students with mild to
moderate disabilities. Practicum/field experience hours: 10.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-200.
SPD-400: Creating and Managing Mild to
Moderate Learning Environments
4 credits
Teacher candidates examine how to create safe, inclusive,
culturally responsive learning environments through
collaboration with colleagues so that individuals with
exceptionalities become active and effective learners and develop
emotional well-being, positive social interactions, and selfdetermination. Teacher candidates focus on behavior
management, functional behavior assessments, adaptive
behaviors, positive behavior interventions and supports, and
behavior improvement plans. Practicum/field experience hours:
10. Fingerprint Clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-320.
SPD-470: Research-Based Methods for
Teaching Math to Students with
Exceptionalities
4 credits
Teacher candidates will examine a variety of instructional
strategies to encourage individuals with mild to moderate
disabilities to develop understandings and connections within the
major concepts and procedures that define number and
operations, algebra, geometry, measurement, and data analysis
and probability and to build skills to apply knowledge in
meaningful ways. From this foundational knowledge, teacher
candidates select, adapt and use research-based methodologies
and interventions in academic and specialized curricula to
advance the learning of students with mild to moderate
disabilities with focused attention upon mathematics.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: ELM-210.
SPD-480: Research-Based Methods for
Teaching ELA to Students with
Exceptionalities
4 credits
Teacher candidates will build foundational knowledge on how to
use concepts from reading, language, and child development to
teach reading, writing, speaking, viewing, listening, and thinking
skills to students with mild to moderate disabilities. In addition,
teacher candidates select, adapt, and use research-based
methodologies and interventions to individualize meaningful and
challenging learning for students with mild to moderate
disabilities, with an emphasis on literacy. Practicum/field
experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisites: ELM-210 and ELM-305.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 479 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-485: Research Based Instruction,
Remediation and Intervention in
ELA
4 credits
Teacher candidates explore the language processing requirements
of proficient reading and writing, including explicit, systematic,
cumulative, and multisensory instruction that integrates listening,
speaking, reading, and writing. In addition, disabilities, such as
dyslexia, are reviewed to understand how they affect the
acquisition of reading skills and how they vary in presentation
and degree. Teacher candidates select, adapt, and use researchbased instructional strategies and interventions in academic and
specialized curricula to advance the learning for all students,
including those with mild to moderate disabilities, with attention
focused on reading. Practicum/field experience hours: 15.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: ELM-305 or ELM315.
SPD-490B: Student Teaching - K-Grade 12
Special Education Mild to
Moderate Setting
6 credits
This course supports the special education clinical field
experience through an eight (8)-week full-time student teaching
experience. Candidates select a K-Grade 12 special education
mild to moderate classroom to engage in the student teaching
experience that includes practical classroom experiences,
research, analysis, and teaching to support the creation of a
teacher work sample related to special education services.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisites: Successful completion of all courses in
POS and content area; a 2.8 GPA; successful completion of state
mandated basic skills and content area exams; and approval and
placement by the Office of Field Experience. Arizona residents
will be required to take the Arizona professional knowledge and
subject knowledge exams for mild to moderate K-12 grade
special education. All paperwork for student teaching must be
submitted by the due date the semester prior to student teaching.
SPD-500: Survey of Special Education: Mild
to Moderate Disabilities
3 credits
Teacher candidates are introduced to the educational needs of
students with mild to moderate disabilities and their families,
including the definitions, characteristics, prevalence, causes and
educational approaches to these disabilities and disorders.
Teacher candidates will identify cognitive, linguistic, social and
emotional patterns of learning and development for students with
mild to moderate disabilities. Teacher candidates also survey the
special education process involving the application of various
laws and regulations. Practicum/field experience hours: 6.
Fingerprint clearance not required.
SPD-501: Foundations in Special Education
Graduate Studies
3 credits
Teacher candidates will survey the philosophical, historical, and
sociological influences upon which special educational theories
and practices are constructed, and explore a variety of the
common issues, trends, and opportunities that professional
special educators face in the field. Special Education Teacher
candidates will prepare for the graduate learning experience at
Grand Canyon University by developing and strengthening the
skills necessary to succeed as graduate students in the College of
Education. Practicum/field experience hours: 6. Fingerprint
clearance not required.
SPD-504: Survey of Special Education:
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
This course orients professional educators to the theoretical
foundations of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Educators will
focus on the exceptional needs of students with ASD and
teacher's responsibilities in determining eligibility and
assessment. This course also examines diagnoses and evidencebased practices in the school environment. An emphasis is placed
on ethical behaviors and looking at different perspectives within
ASD. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SPD-505: Foundations in Autism Spectrum
Disorders
3 credits
This course orients autism spectrum disorder specialist
candidates to the theoretical foundations of autism spectrum
disorders (ASD). ASD specialist candidates will focus on the
exceptional needs of students with ASD and teacher's
responsibilities to determining eligibility and assessment. This
course also examines diagnoses and implications in the school
environment. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required.
SPD-506: Survey of Moderate to Severe
Special Education
3 credits
Teacher candidates are introduced to the educational needs of
students with moderate to severe exceptionalities including the
definitions, characteristics, prevalence, causes and educational
approaches to these disabilities and disorders. Candidates define
low-incidence disabilities and identify cognitive, linguistic,
social, emotional and behavioral patterns of learning and
development for individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities. Practicum/field experience hours: 3. Fingerprint
clearance not required. Prerequisite: SPD-501.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 480 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-507: Inclusive Practices for Autism
Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
In this course, professional educators will look at how individuals
with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) experience difficulties in
the areas of social acceptance and social communication.
Emphasis is placed on how interactions with their typically
developing peers can allow for opportunities to learn social skills
and increase communication skills. Educators will determine the
definition of inclusion and research how it impacts students with
disabilities. Specific focus is placed on how to support students
with ASD in an inclusive environment, including supports in the
areas of environmental, social/emotional, behavioral and
communication. Practicum/field experience hours: 10.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-504.
SPD-510: Professional, Ethical and Legal
Practices and Policies in Special
Education
3 credits
Teacher candidates survey professional ethical principles,
professional practice standards, law and regulations that guide
special educators. Teacher candidates build upon the foundational
knowledge to understand the multiple roles and complex
situations of professional practice that require attention to a
variety of legal, professional, and ethical issues. Practicum/field
experience hours: 6. Fingerprint clearance not required.
Prerequisite: SPD-500 or approved enrollment in the Graduate
Certificate of Completion: Special Education, Mild to Moderate.
SPD-511: Instructional Strategies and
Interventions for Autism Spectrum
Disorder
3 credits
Professional educators will determine strategies to align with the
different ways individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
think, learn, and behave in the classroom. Educators will use
differentiated instruction and Universal Design for Learning
(UDL) strategies to design interventions based on process,
content and product, including specific strategies for engagement
and speech and language support. Educators will support an
inclusive environment with all instructional strategies.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SPD-515: Methods and Assessment for
Autism Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
The focus of this course is to provide methods for improvement
of instruction, based on assessment for students with autism
spectrum disorders (ASD). ASD specialist candidates will center
on instructional planning, adaptive practices, and intervention
strategies established through assessment analysis.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-505.
SPD-517: Data-Driven Assessment for Autism
Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
This course provides professional educators the opportunity to
explore how behavioral, academic, and social assessments are
used when determining effective instructional strategies and
interventions for students with autism spectrum disorders (ASD).
A focus is placed on synthesizing data to make instructional
decisions that support students in a variety of settings. Educators
will look at how to gather data during instruction and monitor
progress of students' IEP goals. Practicum/field experience hours:
10. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-511.
SPD-521: Collaborations and
Communications in Special
Education
3 credits
Teacher candidates survey theories and models for effective
collaboration and communication with students with
exceptionalities, colleagues, other school professionals, families
and community members. In addition, teacher candidates apply
collaboration and communication theories and models,
incorporating technology, across a wide range of contexts to
ensure active involvement in the education process for students
with exceptionalities. Practicum/field experience hours: 6.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-510.
SPD-525: Applied Behavior Analysis and
Autism Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
The focus of this course is to provide autism spectrum disorders
(ASD) specialist candidates with advanced knowledge of applied
behavior analysis in regards to accommodations for students with
ASD. ASD specialist candidates will focus on assessing
individual needs, tools for intervention, and evaluating strategies
and student progress. Practicum/field experience hours: 15.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-505.
SPD-527: Positive Behavior Support for
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
This course explores how individuals with autism spectrum
disorders (ASD) may require specific sensory and behavior
supports in order to be successful in the classroom. Professional
educators look at Positive Behaviors Interventions and Supports
(PBIS), including strategies that encourage and support desired
behaviors. Educators will review the principles of PBIS and
research interventions and supports for students with ASD in all
school environments. Additionally, they will determine how to
assess a student and best support their needs when creating
behavior accommodations for the inclusion classroom.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-567.
SPD-531: Assessment and Eligibility in
Special Educ: Mild to Moderate
Disability
3 credits
Teacher candidates will investigate diagnostic and assessment
tools. Teacher candidates will build foundational knowledge
regarding the use of multiple methods of assessment and datasources for diagnostic and educational decisions for individuals
with mild to moderate disabilities. Practicum/field experience
hours: 6. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-500
or approved enrollment in the Graduate Certificate of
Completion: Special Education, Mild to Moderate.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 481 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-535: Policy and Ethics in Autism
Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) specialist candidates acquire
knowledge of legal policy and ethical practices associated with
students with ASD. This course focuses on rights and
responsibilities, trends, and advocacy for students with ASD.
ASD specialist candidates will also focus on creation and
delivery of individualized education plans. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: SPD-505.
SPD-537: Advocacy, Policy and Ethics for
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
Professional educators acquire knowledge of legal policy and
ethical practices associated with students with autism spectrum
disorder (ASD). This course focuses on rights and
responsibilities, trends, and advocacy for students with ASD.
Educators will also review creation and delivery of individualized
education plans for students with ASD. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: SPD-557.
SPD-540: Learning Environments for
Students with Mild to Moderate
Disabilities
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine how to create safe, inclusive,
culturally responsive learning environments through
collaboration with colleagues so that individuals with disabilities
become active and effective learners and develop emotional wellbeing, positive social interactions, and self-determination.
Teacher candidates focus on behavior management, functional
behavior assessments, adaptive behaviors, positive behavior
interventions and supports, and behavior improvement plans.
Practicum/field experience hours: 9. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-500 or approved enrollment in the
Graduate Certificate of Completion: Special Education, Mild to
Moderate.
SPD-545: Leadership and Collaboration in
Autism Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) specialist candidates acquire a
repertoire of skills that enable them to lead and collaborate in an
environment focused on students with ASD. ASD specialist
candidates develop techniques for professional learning and
evidence-based practices centered on learner growth for students
with ASD. This course also focuses on mentoring opportunities
and community collaboration. Practicum/field experience hours:
5. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-535.
SPD-547: Collaboration and Leadership in
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
This course addresses leadership and advocacy opportunities for
professionals working with the many stakeholders involved in the
delivery of services for students with autism spectrum disorders.
Professional educators describe strategies to promote the
advancement of the profession. Collaborative practices with
stakeholders, conflict resolution strategies, and creating and
sustaining productive work environments will be emphasized.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-537.
SPD-550: Instructional and Transitional
Planning for Students with Mild to
Moderate Disabilities
3 credits
Teacher candidates will examine how instructional planning
advances the learning of students with mild to moderate
disabilities by drawing upon knowledge of central concepts,
structures of the discipline, and tools of inquiry of the academic
subject-matter content areas and a variety of specialized
curricula. Teacher candidates build foundational knowledge
about individualized education plans and transition plans for a
wide range of settings and different learning experiences.
Teacher candidates engage in organizing knowledge, integrating
cross-disciplinary skills, and developing meaningful
individualized learning progressions through drafting an IEP.
Practicum/field experience hours: 9. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-510.
SPD-551: Moderate to Severe: Professional,
Ethical, and Legal Practices
3 credits
Teacher candidates survey professional ethical principles,
professional practice standards, laws, and regulations that guide
special educators. Candidates build upon this foundational
knowledge to examine the multiple roles and complex situations
of professional practice related to individuals with moderate to
severe exceptionalities. Practicum/field experience hours: 3.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-506 or
approved enrollment in the Graduate Certificate of Completion:
Special Education, Moderate to Severe.
SPD-555: Life Skills and Transitions for
Autism Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
This course focuses autism spectrum disorders (ASD) specialist
candidates on life skills and transitions for students with ASD.
ASD specialist candidates will focus on development of
individualized education plans and planning for independent
living. Practicum/field experience hours: None. Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-535.
SPD-556: Assessment and Eligibility in
Moderate to Severe Special
Education
3 credits
Teacher candidates investigate diagnostic and assessment tools
for determining student eligibility and monitoring for progress.
Foundational knowledge is built regarding the use of multiple
methods of assessment and data sources for diagnostic and
educational decisions for individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities. Candidates analyze assessment data and develop
an individualized education plan (IEP) for a student. Ongoing
collaboration with IEP team members and external stakeholders
is emphasized. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 482 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-557: Transitions and Life Skills for
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
This course addresses key requirements of the postsecondary
transition plan and collaboration with stakeholders in school and
the community. Professionals will learn about age appropriate
assessments, aligned activities, and preparation for adult life. In
addition, professionals explore postsecondary options, adult
services, and living options for adults with autism spectrum
disorder. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-527.
SPD-558: Moderate to Severe: Care,
Collaboration, and Communication
3 credits
Teacher candidates explore effective collaboration and
communication techniques and strategies used in moderate to
severe special education settings. Collaboration among teachers,
other school professionals, families, and outside service agencies
is analyzed to meet the individual needs of this special
population. In addition, evaluation of the techniques and
strategies used to meet the unique medical and educational needs
of students within the moderate to severe classroom setting is
addressed. Practicum/field experience hours: 6. Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-556.
SPD-560: Language Development with Mild
to Moderate Disabilities and
Disorders
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine typical and atypical language
development, and associated disabilities and disorders. Teacher
candidates investigate the use of augmentative and alternative
assistive technology, modifications and accommodations to
enhance the communication skills of students with mild to
moderate disabilities. Practicum/field experience hours: 9.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-510.
SPD-562: Moderate to Severe: Instructional
Planning, Strategies, and
Assessment
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine how instructional planning advances
the learning of students with moderate to severe disabilities by
creating a variety of specialized curricula aligned to content
standards. Candidates are guided in designing engaging
instruction that meets the needs documented in a student’s
individualized education plan. Plans for accommodations,
differentiated instruction, and strategies are identified in the
lesson planning process. Formative and summative assessments
are created to evaluate student progress and identify if
instructional adjustments are necessary. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: SPD-558.
SPD-564: Moderate to Severe: Classroom
Management and Behavior
Analysis
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine how to create safe, inclusive,
culturally responsive learning environments through
collaboration with colleagues and other professionals so
individuals with disabilities become active and effective learners.
Strategies to develop students' emotional well-being, positive
social interactions, and self-determination are emphasized.
Candidates focus on functional behavior assessments, behavior
improvement plans, activities of daily living, and positive
behavior interventions and supports. Practicum/field experience
hours: 9. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-562
or approved enrollment in the Graduate Certificate of
Completion: Special Education, Moderate to Severe.
SPD-565: Communication Strategies and
Assistive Tech for Autism
Spectrum Disorders
3 credits
This course explores functional communication training and
specific strategies to promote effective communication behaviors
or skills of students with ASD. In addition, ASD specialist
candidates survey assistive technology in relation to enhancing
communication of students with autism spectrum disorders.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-525.
SPD-566: Postsecondary Transitional
Planning for Moderate to Severe
Exceptionalities
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine curriculum needs of individuals with
moderate to severe disabilities to develop and integrate the skills
needed to transition students from the educational environment
into successful postsecondary opportunities. Candidates focus on
writing measurable postsecondary goals, creating aligned
activities, and identifying the importance of family and
interagency involvement. Practicum/field experience hours: 9.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-564.
SPD-567: Assistive Tech and Communication
Strategies for Autism Spectrum
Disorder
3 credits
This course explores functional communication training and
specific strategies to promote effective communication behaviors
or skills of students with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In
addition, professional educators will survey assistive technology
in relation to enhancing communication of students with autism
spectrum disorders. Consideration of how to manage challenging
expectations, show respect and improve ethical practice to
promote advocacy and collaboration will extend to the home
environment for life-skill application. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-517.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 483 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-568: Moderate to Severe: Adaptive
Communication
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine typical and atypical language
development, and associated disabilities and disorders.
Candidates investigate how speech-language pathologists, special
education teachers and others assist individuals with moderate to
severe exceptionalities in the use of augmentative and alternative
assistive technology, modifications, and accommodations to
enhance their communication skills. Practicum/field experience
hours: 9. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-566
or approved enrollment in the Graduate Certificate of
Completion: Special Education, Moderate to Severe.
SPD-569: Applying Phonics and the Science
of Reading in Adaptive
Communication
3 credits
Teacher candidates examine typical and atypical language
development, and associated disabilities and disorders.
Coursework emphasizes research-based phonics development
and the science of reading, including phonics, phonemic
awareness, vocabulary, fluency, and comprehension. Candidates
investigate how speech-language pathologists, special education
teachers and others assist individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities in the use of augmentative and alternative
assistive technology, modifications, and accommodations to
enhance their communication skills and literacy development.
Practicum/field experience hours: 9. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-566 or approved enrollment in the
Graduate Certificate of Completion: Special Education, Moderate
to Severe.
SPD-570: Methods of Teaching Math to
Students with Mild to Moderate
Disabilities
3 credits
Teacher candidates build foundational knowledge on a variety of
research-based instructional strategies to encourage individuals
with mild to moderate disabilities to develop understandings and
connections within content areas, and to build skills to apply
knowledge in meaningful ways. From this foundational
knowledge, teacher candidates select, adapt and use researchbased instructional strategies and interventions in academic and
specialized curricula to advance the learning of students with
mild to moderate disabilities with focused attention upon
mathematics. Practicum/field experience hours: 12. Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-550 or ESD-530 or
approved enrollment in the Graduate Certificate of Completion:
Special Education, Mild to Moderate.
SPD-572: Moderate to Severe: Methods of
Teaching Functional Mathematics
and Science
3 credits
Teacher candidates build foundational knowledge on a variety of
research-based instructional strategies to provide individuals with
moderate to severe exceptionalities access to content areas. From
this foundational knowledge, teacher candidates select and adapt
research-based instructional strategies to plan lessons with a
focused attention on functional mathematics and sciences.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-568 or SPD-569.
SPD-575Ω: Capstone in Autism Spectrum
Disorders
3 credits
The capstone course provides ASD specialist candidates the
opportunity to create a portfolio project that synthesizes major
elements of the professional studies program. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
Prerequisite: Completion of all other courses required for the
Master of Arts in Autism Spectrum Disorders program.
SPD-577: Capstone and Action Research in
Autism Spectrum Disorder
3 credits
This course is the culminating course in the Master of Arts in
Autism Spectrum Disorders that emphasizes leadership and
advocacy opportunities for professional educators working with
the many stakeholders involved in the delivery of services for
students with autism spectrum disorders. Educators will develop
future professional goals and apply knowledge of professional
literature and research to promote professional development
opportunities. Collaborative practices with stakeholders, conflict
resolution strategies, and creating and sustaining productive work
environments will be investigated. Experience will culminate in a
completed electronic portfolio. Practicum/field experience hours:
30. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: Completion of
all other courses required for the Master of Arts in Autism
Spectrum Disorders program.
SPD-578: Language Development Through
Phonics and the Science of Reading
3 credits
Teacher candidates explore components of typical and atypical
literacy development for students with exceptionalities.
Coursework emphasizes research-based phonics development
and the science of reading, including phonics, phonemic
awareness, vocabulary, fluency and comprehension. Teacher
candidates focus on assessing developmental and other literacy
concerns, including dyslexia, and differentiation strategies to
support literacy development in students with exceptionalities.
Practicum/field experience hours: 9. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-510 or ESD-530.
SPD-580: Methods of Teaching Lang Arts to
Students with Mild/Moderate
Disabilities
3 credits
Teacher candidates select, adapt and use research-based
instructional strategies and interventions in academic and
specialized curricula to individualize meaningful and challenging
learning for students with mild to moderate disabilities, with an
emphasis on literacy. Practicum/field experience hours: 12.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-550 or ESD530 or approved enrollment in the Graduate Certificate of
Completion: Special Education, Mild to Moderate.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 484 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-581: Research Based Instruction,
Remediation, and Intervention in
ELA
3 credits
Teacher candidates explore the language processing requirements
of proficient reading and writing, including explicit, systematic,
cumulative, and multisensory instruction that integrates listening,
speaking, reading, and writing. In addition, disabilities, such as
dyslexia, are reviewed to understand how they affect the
acquisition of reading skills and how they vary in presentation
and degree. Teacher candidates select, adapt, and use researchbased instructional strategies and interventions in academic and
specialized curricula to advance the learning for all students,
including those with mild to moderate disabilities, with attention
focused on literacy and reading. Practicum/field experience
hours: 12. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisites: (SPD550 and SPD-578) or approved enrollment in the Graduate
Certificate of Completion: Special Education, Mild to Moderate.
SPD-582: Moderate to Severe: Methods of
Teaching Functional Language
Arts
3 credits
Teacher candidates select and adapt research-based instructional
strategies to provide individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities access to language arts content. With this
foundational knowledge, teacher candidates plan a functional
approach to literacy instruction. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-568
or SPD-569.
SPD-585: Educational Psychology for Special
Education
3 credits
This course provides a thematically arranged study of the theories
and principles of psychology that have influenced instructional
practices. Behavioral and cognitive approaches to learning,
motivation, and instruction are explored. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
SPD-587∆
: Research Based Instruction,
Remediation, and Intervention in
Functional ELA
3 credits
Teacher candidates select and adapt research-based instructional
strategies to provide individuals with moderate to severe
exceptionalities access to language arts content. With this
foundational knowledge, teacher candidates plan a functional
approach to literacy instruction. In addition, disabilities, such as
dyslexia, are reviewed to understand how they affect the
acquisition of reading skills and how they vary in presentation
and degree. Teacher candidates select, adapt, and use researchbased instructional strategies and interventions in language arts to
advance the learning for all students, including those with
moderate to severe disabilities, with attention focused on reading.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: SPD-569.
SPD-590Ω: Student Teaching for Special
Education Teacher Candidates
8 credits
Teacher candidates are engaged in the student teaching
experience that includes practical classroom experiences,
research, analysis, and teaching to support the creation of a
Student Teaching Evaluation of Performance (STEP). Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisites: Successful completion of all
courses in POS and content area; a 3.0 GPA; successful
completion of NES or your state’s mandated content area exams;
and approval and placement by College of Education Office of
Clinical Practice. All paperwork for student teaching must be
submitted by the due date the semester prior to student teaching.
SPD-592: Student Teaching for Special
Education: Moderate to Severe
8 credits
This course supports the special education clinical field
experience through a full-time student teaching experience.
Candidates select a K-Grade 12 special education moderate to
severe classroom setting to engage in the student teaching
experience that includes practical classroom experiences,
research, analysis, and teaching to support the creation of a
Student Teaching Performance of Evaluation (STEP) and an
Individualized Education Program (IEP) Performance Template
related to special education services. Fingerprint clearance
required.
SPD-593Ω: Capstone in Gifted Education 3 credits
This course provides a reflective, experience-based integration of
theory and practice as the culminating experience in the gifted
education program. Candidates apply the knowledge and skills
they have acquired through their coursework to develop a useful,
meaningful, and practical project. Practicum/Field Experience
hours: 30. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: SPD-583.
SPD-593B: Student Teaching for K-12 Special
Education: Session B
6 credits
This course supports the special education clinical field
experience through an eight (8)-week full-time student teaching
experience. Candidates select a K-12 grade special education
mild to moderate classroom to engage in the student teaching
experience that includes practical classroom experiences,
research, analysis, and teaching to support the creation of a
teacher work sample related to special education services.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisites: Successful completion of all courses in
POS and content area; a 3.0 GPA; successful completion of state
mandated basic skills and content area exams; and approval and
placement by the Office of Field Experience. Arizona residents
will be required to take the Arizona professional knowledge and
subject knowledge exams for mild to moderate K-12 grade
special education. All paperwork for student teaching must be
submitted by the due date the semester prior to student teaching.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance
required.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 485 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SPD-595: Methods of Educating Learners
with Diverse Needs
3 credits
This course examines methods of educating learners with diverse
needs. Emphasis is placed on definitions, etiology,
characteristics, and prevalence of various exceptionalities; laws
and litigation protecting the rights of students with special needs
and their families; current issues affecting persons with special
needs; social perceptions, assessment, inclusion, and transition;
and basic curriculum accommodations and supportive services
for teaching students with special needs in the general classroom.
Practicum/field experience hours: 15. Fingerprint clearance
required.
Special Education (SPE)
SPE-807: Foundations of Special Education 3 credits
This course provides a broad overview of the history and theories
of special education. A brief overview of human development,
educational standards, and instructional tools is also presented.
Prerequisite: RES-811 or RES-850.
SPE-812: Special Education Law 3 credits
This course examines special education law and regulations as a
framework for the provision of appropriate educational
opportunities for all students. Law as a foundation of best
practice is discussed. Prerequisite: RES-850.
SPE-817: Supervision and Administration of
Special Education
3 credits
The course emphasizes analysis of the leadership practices
necessary to guide construction of appropriate internal and
external frameworks for K-12 educators and students. Within
these boundaries, the course addresses student assessment,
internal collaboration, and professional development.
Prerequisite: RES-861.
SPE-822: Fiscal Management in Special
Education
3 credits
This course examines budgeting, fiscal planning, and grant
writing and management in the special education setting.
Leadership skills for fiscal management and fiscal integrity are
addressed.
SPE-827: Perspectives in Special Education 3 credits
This course examines the current and emerging trends and issues
in special education within the K-12 setting. Topics are placed in
the context of legal compliance and the provision of appropriate
educational opportunities for all students. Learners connect these
ideas to their research interests to continue developing
components of their research prospectus. Prerequisite: RES-861.
Sports and Entertainment (SPT)
SPT-230: Introduction to Sports and
Entertainment Management
4 credits
This course provides an overview of the business of sports and
entertainment, including career opportunities, and a study of the
value of professional management to sports and entertainment
organizations.
SPT-350: Sports and Entertainment
Analytics
4 credits
This course emphasizes the use of data analytics with a focus on
teaching students how to obtain the data, insights, and
intelligence needed in every area of sports and entertainment
marketing, media, viewership, talent impact, scouting, and
sponsorship to most effectively maximize value for brands, rights
holders, agencies, and media.
SPT-360: Sports and Entertainment Law 4 credits
This course provides an in-depth overview of the legal side of the
sports and entertainment industry, including contracts,
endorsement deals, riders, unions, ASCAP, BMI, SPAC
(standard player agent contract), agent agreements, and league
collective bargaining agreements.
SPT-370: Sports and Entertainment
Marketing
4 credits
This course is a study of basic marketing concepts with
applications to sports and entertainment organizations. Topics
include advertising promotions and public relations, consumer
behavior, market segmentation, fan loyalty, strategic market
planning, brand communications, branding vs. marketing and
sponsorship. Prerequisites: SPT-230; and MKT-245 or MKT315.
SPT-375: Sports and Entertainment Event
Planning
4 credits
This course provides an introduction to event planning for
athletic, live entertainment, and special events. An emphasis is
placed on budgeting, site selection, sponsorship, and
facility/venue management. Prerequisites: SPT-230 and MKT315.
SPT-460∆
: Sports and Entertainment Revenue
Generation
4 credits
This course serves as a culmination of experience in the business
and management of sports and entertainment, which includes the
gradual development of strategic and forward thinking business
plans, as well as focusing on your personal brand. The course is
designed to assist students in their career development in the
global world of sports and entertainment and to gain a better
understanding of business operations and various departments
involved in managing and maintaining sports and entertainment
entities which lead to revenue generation.
Statistics (STA)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 486 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
STA-525: Probability Theory 4 credits
This course provides a rigorous examination of axiomatic
probability; combinatorics; random variables and their
distributions; expectation; the mean, variance, and moment
generating function; induced distributions; sums of independent
random variables; the law of large numbers; and the central limit
theorem. Optional topics may include: random walks, Markov
chains, and/or martingales. Prerequisite: MAT-254.
Science and Technology (STG)
STG-110Ω: Team Innovation Experience 3 credits
This course will enhance student skills in working with others,
communication, project management, self-discipline, and
creativity. The TIE is an inquiry-based learning course and lab
that integrates multiple academic disciplines to develop and
demonstrate a student's critical thinking and problem-solving
skills. Students will have the opportunity to examine and work on
real world problems. The team project selected will be managed
like a business and/or research project; objectives will be set and
teams will develop strategies and action plans. Training modules
will be conducted for understanding of hypothesis-based
research, business and work processes, team effectiveness skills,
team diversity, learning style differences, and effective oral and
written communications. Co-requisite: STG-110L
STG-110LΩ: Team Innovation Experience Lab 1 credits
This lab course is designed to reinforce principles learned in
STG-110. The laboratory reinforces and expands learning of
principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on
teamwork and cross-disciplinary problem solving. Co-requisite:
STG-110.
STG-242: Science of Solid Materials 3 credits
This course provides a general background on the field of
materials science. The course builds upon prior study of general
chemistry and develops the concepts of bonding and the structure
of solids. Building on prior study of physics, the course
introduces topics in solid state physics and devices. Additional
topics may include electronic properties of materials as well as
their thermal, mechanical, acoustic, and optical properties.
Prerequisites: PHY-122, PHY-122L, CHM-115, and CHM-115L.
Co-Requisite: STG-242L.
STG-242L: Science of Solid Materials Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of STG-242 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course. Hands-on
activities include applying numerical solutions for properties and
characteristics of given materials using data on their properties,
and characterization of materials properties for given engineering
applications. Prerequisites: PHY-122, PHY-122L, CHM-115, and
CHM-115L. Co-Requisite: STG-242.
STG-330҂: Thermodynamics & Lab 4 credits
This course covers the principles of thermodynamics, including
properties of ideal gases and water vapors, and the first and
second laws of thermodynamics. Additional topics include closed
systems and control volume, basic gas and vapor cycles, basic
refrigeration, entropy, and an introduction to thermodynamics of
reacting mixtures. Students will analyze simple to complex
thermodynamic problems. Prerequisites: MAT-264, PHY-121
and PHY-121L.
STG-330HN҂:Thermodynamics & Lab 4 credits
This course covers the principles of thermodynamics, including
properties of ideal gases and water vapors, and the first and
second laws of thermodynamics. Additional topics include closed
systems and control volume, basic gas and vapor cycles, basic
refrigeration, entropy, and an introduction to thermodynamics of
reacting mixtures. Students will analyze simple to complex
thermodynamic problems. Prerequisites: MAT-264, PHY-121
and PHY-121L.
STG-345: Transport Phenomena & Lab 4 credits
This course is a study of fluid mechanics and heat and mass
transfer. Topics include principles of momentum, energy, and
mass transport, stress and strain rate descriptions, diffusion,
calculation of transport coefficients, problems in viscous flow,
dimensional analysis, and turbulence. Similarities and differences
of the various phenomena are also examined. Prerequisites: PHY122, PHY-122L, STG-330, and MAT-364.
STG-350҂: Electromagnetic Fields & Optics 3 credits
This course develops the fundamentals of static electric and
magnetic fields, physical optics, and describes the properties of
light in terms of electromagnetic waves. Prerequisites: MAT-364,
PHY-122 and PHY-122L. Co-Requisite: STG-350L.
STG-350HN҂:Electromagnetic Fields & Optics 3 credits
This course develops the fundamentals of static electric and
magnetic fields, physical optics, and describes the properties of
light in terms of electromagnetic waves. Prerequisites: MAT-364,
PHY-122 and PHY-122L. Co-Requisite: STG-350L.
STG-350L҂: Electromagnetic Fields & Optics
Lab
1 credits
The laboratory section of STG-350 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course. Hands-on
activities focus on the use of analytical techniques to solve
problems and interpret results physically, Smith Chart and its
applications to transmission lines, and general solutions of
Faraday's Law and Maxwell's equations. Prerequisites: MAT364, PHY-122 and PHY-122L. Co-Requisite: STG-350.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 487 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
STG-380∆҂: Ethics and Professionalism in
Science and Technology
4 credits
This course surveys key ethics issues in science and technology.
Students have the opportunity to explore theoretical concepts in
professional ethics. Using case studies, students discuss and
evaluate issues in cyber-ethics, network security, privacy and
identity theft, intellectual property and ownership rights, digital
rights management, professional ethics, and codes of conduct.
Students integrate information from multiple sources, loop
through feedback and revision cycles to write, and present a code
of ethical conduct for science and technology. This is a writing
intensive course.
STG380HN∆҂:
Ethics and Professionalism in
Science and Technology
4 credits
This course surveys key ethics issues in science and technology.
Students have the opportunity to explore theoretical concepts in
professional ethics. Using case studies, students discuss and
evaluate issues in cyber-ethics, network security, privacy and
identity theft, intellectual property and ownership rights, digital
rights management, professional ethics, and codes of conduct.
Students integrate information from multiple sources, loop
through feedback and revision cycles to write, and present a code
of ethical conduct for science and technology. This is a writing
intensive course.
STG-390∆҂: Professionalism in Science &
Technology-Communications,
Conduct and Ethics
4 credits
This course provides an insight into professional communications
and conduct associated with careers in science, engineering and
technology. Students learn about the changing modes of
communication in these disciplines recognizing the advances in
digital communications. They gain practical experience
developing and supporting a thesis or position through written,
oral, and visual presentations prepared and delivered individually
and in groups. Students will explore concepts and issues in
professional ethics and conduct such as privacy, discrimination,
workplace etiquette, cyber-ethics, network and data security,
identity theft, ownership rights and intellectual property. This is a
writing intensive course.
STG390HN∆҂:
Professionalism in Science &
Technology-Communications,
Conduct and Ethics
4 credits
This course provides an insight into professional communications
and conduct associated with careers in science, engineering and
technology. Students learn about the changing modes of
communication in these disciplines recognizing the advances in
digital communications. They gain practical experience in
developing and supporting a thesis or position in written, oral and
visual presentations. Students will explore concepts and issues in
professional ethics and conduct such as privacy, discrimination,
workplace etiquette, cyber-ethics, network and data security,
identity theft, ownership rights and intellectual property. This is a
writing intensive course.
STG-430: Engineering Project Management 4 credits
This course covers aspects of project management including
principles, best practices, and tools and techniques across major
methodologies. Prerequisites: STG-110 and STG-110L,.
STG-451∆Ω: Capstone Project I 2 credits
The first capstone course provides students the opportunity to
work in teams to tackle real world applied research and design
projects in their chosen area of interest. Students develop a
project proposal, conduct a feasibility study, learn to protect
intellectual property, develop teamwork skills, budgets, and a
schedule for completing the project. Students conduct extensive
research, integrate information from multiple sources, and work
with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and revisions.
Students use this course to further develop technical writing and
business presentation skills. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisites: CST-307, CST-315 and department approval.
STG-452∆Ω: Capstone Project II 2 credits
The second capstone course provides students the opportunity to
implement and present the applied research project designed,
planned, and started in the first capstone course. The capstone
project is a culmination of the learning experiences while a
student in the Computer Science program. Students conduct
extensive research, integrate information from multiple sources,
and work with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and
revision. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisite:
Successful completion of STG-451 with a grade of C or better.
STG-460: Survey of Manufacturing
Techniques
4 credits
This course is an overview of manufacturing techniques.
Processes may include casting and molding, forming, machining,
metrology, welding, joining, and computer-aided manufacturing.
Additional topics include product design, material selection,
process planning, and manufacturing automation. Process
capabilities, limitations, and design for manufacturability will be
examined.
STG-460L: Survey of Manufacturing
Techniques Lab
2 credits
This course is the lab component of STG-460. In this lab, the
topics discussed in the lecture will be applied including casting,
welding, machining, brazing, forming, and computer-aided
manufacturing. Prerequisite: MET-275. Co-Requisite: STG-460.
Software Engineering (SWE)
SWE-310҂
: Software Engineering I 4 credits
Overview of ethical values for engineering requirements analysis
and design of large multifaceted software systems. Introductory
discussions on software process models, approaches of project
planning, documentation, tracing, quality assurance, and
communication. A focused emphasis on project initiation and
requirements analysis is taken. Group projects, technical oral and
written presentations will be completed throughout the duration
of this course. Prerequisite: CST-201.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 488 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SWE-350: Embedded Systems I 4 credits
An introduction to embedded systems, including fundamentals of
embedded system hardware and firmware design will be
explored. Students will also be introduced to the C programming
language in the context of embedded systems software
development. A popular microcontroller will be leveraged in the
course. The course will culminate with a significant final project
which will extend a base microcontroller board that provides a
complete practical hardware and software based embedded
system. Prerequisite: CST-307.
SWE-410: Software Engineering II 4 credits
Continuation of the development process, protocols and devices
for the implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of
large multifaceted software systems. Familiarity with various
software development and test environments. Group projects,
technical oral and written presentations will be completed
throughout the duration of this course. Prerequisite: SWE-310 &
CST-215.
SWE-450: Embedded Systems II 4 credits
Continuation of the embedded system hardware and firmware
design will be explored. A popular microcontroller will be
leveraged in the course. Students will also be introduced to an
assembly language in the context of embedded systems software
development. Peripherals, I/O, real time processing, and real time
Operating Systems will be discussed. The architecture and
instruction set of the microcontroller will be discussed. This
course will culminate with a significant final project which will
extend a base microcontroller board that provides a complete
practical hardware and software based embedded system.
Prerequisites: SWE-350, CST-307, and CST-315.
SWE-451: Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC) I
2 credits
An introduction to the Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC), including the various tools, artifacts, and delivery
practices will be explored. An overview of team process
infrastructure and resource estimation to support appropriate
levels of quality is discussed. Traditional system and software
delivery methodologies as well as agile and lean delivery
methodologies will be discoursed. This course will be comprised
of several individual, in-class, and group projects that implement
the practices reviewed. Prerequisite: SWE-310.
SWE-452: Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC) II
2 credits
Continuation of the SDLC process and delivery methodologies,
including the various tools, artifacts, and delivery methodologies
is explored. Traditional system and software delivery
methodologies as well as agile and lean delivery methodologies
will be discussed. An understanding of selecting the correct
development life cycle (methodology), creating realistic plans,
and managing a project team through each project phase is
examined. Students must complete a programming project of
mid-level complexity and delivery of a sizeable software product
by a student team. Prerequisites: SWE-451, SWE-410, CST-307,
and CST-315.
SWE-520: Advanced Software Engineering
Fundamentals
4 credits
This course covers leading the Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC) processes: planning considerations for product
definition, development, test, implementation, and maintenance.
The course also covers software requirements elicitation and
architecture synthesis.
SWE-530: Advanced Software Architectures 4 credits
This course involves the study of concepts, principles, and scope
of software system architecture, including architectural styles,
languages, leadership in driving architectures, connectors,
middleware, dynamism, analysis, testing and domain-specific
approaches. Prerequisite: SWE-520.
SWE-540: Advanced Software Management &
Concepts
4 credits
This course covers theories of management, methodologies, and
their application to software projects. It also covers leadership in
driving successful teams in SDLC projects, economic analysis of
software products and processes, software cost and schedule
estimation, planning and control. Prerequisite: SWE-530.
SWE-550: Software Engineering & Security
Principles
4 credits
This course explores the implementation of security best
practices from a software engineering perspective. The course
also comprehensively explores current initiatives in the industry,
such as defensive programming and proper security planning, and
focuses on security throughout the entire SDLC process.
Prerequisite: SWE-540.
SWE-560: Research & Review of Emerging
Technologies in Software
Engineering
4 credits
This course covers the manner and methods software engineers
use to research an review current and emerging technologies.
Topics explain how the various technologies and
implementations could be used. Prerequisite: SWE-550.
SWE-570: Software Engineering IOT &
Embedded Systems
4 credits
This course covers embedded systems and IOT device
development. Students will complete activities in which
embedded system development is used. Prerequisite: SWE-560.
SWE-590: Software Engineering Capstone 4 credits
Students conceptualize, design, and present an innovative idea,
process, or a product in the field of software engineering. Projects
synthesize and apply knowledge from previous courses and
include a scientific report anchored in current theory and
research. Prerequisite: SWE-570.
Social Work (SWK)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 489 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SWK-170: Introduction to Social Welfare 4 credits
This course provides the foundation for students to explain the
profession of social work within the social context of the United
States. The course explores how society influenced the
development of social work as a profession in the United States.
Students examine cultural values, social work values, history of
social work, and selected theoretical models of social work to
demonstrate how these factors influenced the adoption of the
general practice framework. In a broad overview, students
examine the process to help individuals, families, groups,
organizations, and communities evaluate and solve problems in
using the micro, mezzo and macro system levels to assess the
problem and make recommendations for interventions.
SWK-280: Social Service Delivery Systems 4 credits
This course provides an overview of the purpose, structure, and
professional roles of human service agencies including federal,
state, and social service delivery systems. Students explore the
delivery of services with special populations. This course
includes integration of 25 hours of service-learning experience
with course material. Prerequisite: SWK-170.
SWK-285: Foundations of Social Work
Practice
4 credits
This course provides the theoretical and practical foundation for
conducting social work with cultural competency. Focus areas
include understanding yourself and others from a variety of
diverse backgrounds, the importance of ethics and professional
behavior, development of effective communication techniques,
and beginning case management and helping skills for working
with individuals, families, groups, and larger systems.
Prerequisite: SWK-170.
SWK-290: Human Biology and Social Work
Practice
4 credits
This course provides the foundation for students to learn and
examine the impact of human biology on social work practice.
The course explores how the human body’s response to differing
variables plays a major role in a social worker’s approach and
ideology to practice. Students examine mental health, varying
human biological determinants, faith, and environmental factors
that influence both the individual and the practitioner.
Understanding how these biological factors influence mental and
physical health is vital to a social worker’s role in assisting others
as they navigate from birth to adulthood and inevitably work
through the end of life stages. Students in this course examine the
impact of biology to assist individuals, families, groups,
organizations, and communities evaluate how to minimize
negative biological outcomes while focusing on the strengths of
biology and beliefs to overcome obstacles. This course looks at
the impact of human biology from a micro, mezzo, and macro
system level providing an overview of the impact a person’s
biological response can have in recovering from a life event.
SWK-330: Diversity, Advocacy, and Social
Justice in Social Work
4 credits
This course provides foundational knowledge of how diversity,
advocacy, and social justice exist within social work practice. It
offers an examination and application of frameworks to guide
and advance social and economic justice and human rights.
Students learn skill development related to cultural competency
and advocacy for individuals and groups while gaining a deeper
self-awareness. Students also learn about the impact of
oppression and privilege.
SWK-350∆Ω: Social Work Ethics and DecisionMaking
4 credits
This writing intensive course explores the history, evolution, and
application of values and ethics in social work, reviewing
theoretical approaches and decision-making models. Students
explore components of professional values, personal values, and
self-awareness in their application and demonstration of ethical
professional behavior as it relates to the NASW Code of Ethics.
Students examine the legal or jurisdictional requirements of
licensing boards and the intersectionality with professional
ethical behavior. Students develop a method for decision making
for ethical dilemmas that occur in social work practice at all
levels of practice, including micro, mezzo, and macro levels.
SWK-355∆
: Social Welfare Policy and Services 4 credits
This writing-intensive course examines the history of social work
as it relates to public policy in social welfare, social health, and
civil rights. Roles of social work professionals in policy analysis
and evaluation are also examined as well as the interaction
between social policy and social work services.
SWK-360҂
: Human Behavior in the Social
Environment I
4 credits
This course examines human behavior in the social environment
by critically analyzing biopsychosocial development from
conception through late adulthood using an integrative,
multidimensional perspective while examining multiple theories
of human behavior. This includes a focus on individuals and
families. The course emphasizes a social work perspective and
key frameworks for social work, with an emphasis on person in
environment and systems theory as they describe diverse human
behavior in relation to social class, race and ethnicity, gender and
sexual orientation, and other multicultural backgrounds.
Prerequisites: SWK-170, SWK-280, and SWK-285.
SWK-370҂
: Human Behavior in the Social
Environment II
4 credits
This course examines human behavior in the social environment
at the macro level with a focus on groups, communities, and
organizations and their effect on human behavior. The course
emphasizes a social work perspective and key frameworks for
social work, with an emphasis on person in environment, systems
theory, and social justice as they describe diverse human
behavior in relation to social class, race and ethnicity, gender and
sexual orientation, and other multicultural backgrounds.
Prerequisite: SWK-360.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 490 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SWK-420: Trauma-Informed Care 4 credits
This course provides an introductory knowledge of traumainformed care from foundational principles and historical context
to practice implementation. The context of trauma is discussed
including types of trauma and adverse outcomes related to
various systems. It offers an overview of screening, assessing,
and treating traumatic stress. Information is provided on the risk
of vicarious trauma and compassion fatigue for providers.
SWK-430: Methods of Research in Social
Work
4 credits
This course introduces students to scientific inquiry and the
research process used to evaluate and inform the social work
profession. Methods of both quantitative and qualitative data
methods and analysis are explored.
SWK-450: Program Management and
Leadership in Social Work
4 credits
This course explores the complexities of leadership and
management in the profession of social work, reviewing
theoretical approaches and practices. Students examine various
components of leadership including leadership styles, selfawareness, motivational methods, financial management,
accountability in management, and vulnerability. Students learn
to consider the power differential, courage, exploration of the
self, life experience, and the impact of these components on the
supervisory relationship.
SWK-455҂
: Generalist Social Work Practice I:
Working with Individuals and
Systems
4 credits
This course introduces students to the fundamental skills of social
work direct practice for individuals and family systems within the
general practice framework. Students demonstrate a mastery of
the social work “helping process.” Students learn, practice, and
reflect on their interaction skills within the intake, assessment,
treatment, evaluation, and termination process with individuals
and families. The course reinforces a variety of organizing
theories, builds a variety of social work practice theories, and it
broadens the concept of cultural humility and reflective
attentiveness. Prerequisite: SWK-370.
SWK-460҂
: Generalist Social Work Practice II:
Groups, Communities, and
Organizations
4 credits
This course introduces students to the fundamental skills of social
work direct practice for groups, communities, and organizations
within the general practice framework. Students demonstrate a
mastery of the social work “helping process.” Students learn,
practice, and reflect on their interaction skills within the intake,
assessment, treatment, evaluation, and termination processes with
groups and organizations. The course reinforces a variety of
organizing, builds a variety of social work practice theories, and
broadens the concept of cultural humility and reflective
attentiveness. Prerequisite: SWK-455.
SWK-465: Case Management 4 credits
This course introduces students to entry-level case management
skills. Students identify the various roles and functions of a case
manager. A primary focus of this course is the case management
process, including how to track and manage a client case load.
Through case study analysis, students determine appropriate
client assessment techniques and problem-solving strategies.
Students explore case manager roles and case management styles
in a variety of client populations and nonprofit human service
agencies. Students learn to differentiate roles, functions, and
styles based on their assessment of the client’s needs and a clear
understanding of the agency’s mission, policies, and programs.
SWK-470: Field Instruction I 4 credits
This course exposes students to the foundations of social work
practice in approved community agencies with professional
supervision. The course consists of both classroom course work
and field experience hours. The course provides experiential
integration and application of concepts, cognitive and affective
processes, and professional social work skills. Practicum/field
experience hours: 200. Prerequisite: SWK-170.
SWK-480: Field Instruction II 4 credits
This course provides a continuation of foundations of social work
practice in approved community agencies with professional
supervision. Experiential integration and application of concepts,
cognitive and affective processes, and professional social work
skills from concurrent social work courses are practiced.
Practicum/field experience hours: 200. Prerequisite: SWK-470.
SWK-490: Social Work Capstone 4 credits
This capstone course in the Bachelor of Social Work program
allows students the opportunity to integrate and apply previous
learning through the creation of a project to reflect their
knowledge and skills. The student will take insight from their
academic and field experiences to create a final project and poster
presentation highlighting their knowledge of assessment,
application of theory, practice skills, ethics, and cultural
sensitivity. Prerequisite: SWK-430.
SWK-516: Human Behavior in the Social
Environment I
3 credits
This course examines human behavior in the social environment
by critically analyzing biopsychosocial development from
conception through middle childhood using an integrative,
multidimensional perspective while examining multiple theories
of human behavior. This includes a focus on individuals and
families. The course emphasizes a social work perspective and
key frameworks for social work with an emphasis on person-inenvironment and systems theory as they describe diverse human
behavior in relation to social class, race and ethnicity, gender and
sexual orientation, and other multicultural backgrounds.
SWK-520Ω: Social Welfare Policy and Services 3 credits
This course explores the history and progression of the social
welfare system, services, and policies and their effects on the
social work profession. Emphasis is placed on an analysis of how
these systems impact vulnerable populations, specifically relating
to poverty, age, race, sex, and mental health. Students learn to
identify strengths and weaknesses of social welfare policies while
considering diversity and social justice.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 491 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SWK-525Ω: Generalist Social Work Practice I:
Working With Individuals and
Systems
3 credits
This course is based on a generalist social work perspective and
prepares students for beginning practice with individuals and
systems. This course focuses on conceptualizing social work
practice, integrating knowledge and theory with practice, and
developing beginning level practice skills. Special attention is
given to human diversity and populations at risk.
SWK-530Ω: Diversity and Social Justice in
Social Work
3 credits
This course explores the foundation of knowledge needed to
successfully engage diverse populations and advance social
justice in social work practice. Emphasis is placed on systems of
power and oppression and the cultural aspects of race/ethnicity,
gender, sexual orientation, and socioeconomic status.
SWK-535Ω: Field Instruction I 4 credits
This course exposes students to the foundations of social work
practice in approved community agencies with professional
supervision. The course consists of both online classroom course
work and field experience hours. The course provides
experiential integration and application of concepts, cognitive
and affective processes, and professional social work skills.
Practicum/field experience hours: 240.
SWK-541: Human Behavior in the Social
Environment II
3 credits
This course examines human behavior in the social environment
by critically analyzing biopsychosocial development from
adolescence through late adulthood. This includes a focus on
groups, communities, and organizations and their effect on
human behavior. The course emphasizes a social work
perspective and key frameworks for social work with an
emphasis on person-in-environment and systems theory as they
describe diverse human behavior in relation to social class, race
and ethnicity, gender and sexual orientation, and multiculturalism
as an evolving variable of change across the lifespan.
Prerequisite: SWK-516.
SWK-545Ω: Generalist Social Work Practice II:
Groups, Communities, and
Organizations
3 credits
This course is based on a generalist social work perspective and
provides students with fundamental social work competencies to
influence change at the group, community, and organizational
levels. Emphasis is given to facilitative and constraining effects
of the social context surrounding macro practice. Special
attention is given to human diversity and populations-at-risk.
Prerequisite: SWK-525.
SWK-550Ω: Field Instruction II 4 credits
This course provides a continuation of foundations of social work
practice in approved community agencies with professional
supervision. Experiential integration and application of concepts,
cognitive and affective processes, and professional social work
skills from concurrent social work courses are practiced.
Practicum/field experience hours: 240. Prerequisite: SWK-535.
SWK-555Ω: Methods of Research in Social
Work I
3 credits
This course introduces students to the scientific method and
research design process used to evaluate and inform the social
work profession. Methods of both quantitative and qualitative
data analysis are explored.
SWK-600Ω: Psychopathology and the Role of
the Social Worker
3 credits
This course helps students to understand and analyze common
classification systems and nomenclature used by practitioners to
communicate, predict, and plan interventions for individuals with
serious mental disorders. The course also helps students
understand diagnosis in the context of a social work and personfirst perspective. Prerequisites: SWK-516, SWK-525, and SWK541 or BSW degree from a CSWE-accredited program.
SWK-601: Social Work Advocacy 3 credits
This course is based on client advocacy as an ethical
responsibility in the field of social work. This course explores the
individual, family, group, community, organizational, and
political advocacy efforts and processes that are necessary in
influencing social problems and achieving social justice. There is
an emphasis on analysis, assessment, development, and
application of macro-level advocacy. Prerequisites: SWK-516,
SWK-541, and SWK-545 or BSW degree from a CSWEaccredited program.
SWK-610Ω: Advanced Social Work Practice
Skills I: Individuals and Families
3 credits
The purpose of this advanced practice course is to build on
foundational learning and start to develop advanced skills in
working with individuals and families as a complement to
ongoing field instruction. The course focuses on specific theories
and models for individual and family work and how to effectively
implement them. Special attention is given to factors of
oppression, understanding diversity individually and in family
systems, and outcomes.
SWK-620Ω: Field Instruction III 4 credits
This course covers advanced clinical social work practice with
individuals, dyads, families, and small groups in approved
community agencies with professional supervision. Continued
integration and application of concepts, cognitive and affective
processes, and professional social work skills from concurrent
social work courses is practiced. Practicum/field experience
hours: 240. Prerequisite: SWK-550.
SWK-621: Advanced Standing Field
Instruction I
4 credits
This course covers advanced clinical social work practice with
individuals, dyads, families, and small groups in approved
community agencies with professional supervision. Continued
integration and application of concepts, cognitive and affective
processes, and professional social work skills from concurrent
social work courses is practiced. Practicum/field experience
hours: 250. Prerequisites: SWK-600 and SWK-601.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 492 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
SWK-625Ω: Evidence Based Practice in Social
Work
3 credits
This course prepares students to combine well-researched
assessment and intervention approaches with professional
experience and ethics, client preferences, and culture, and to
guide and inform the delivery of evidence-based programs,
policies, and services at all levels of social work practice.
SWK-635Ω: Field Instruction IV 4 credits
This course finalizes the students' field placement experience. It
provides a culmination of advanced clinical social work practice
with individuals, dyads, families, small groups, and
organizations in approved community agencies with professional
supervision. Continued integration and application of concepts,
cognitive and affective processes, professional social work skills,
ethics, and strategies from concurrent social work courses is
practiced. This course gives students opportunities to develop and
demonstrate the core competencies in a social work environment,
while applying the knowledge, theories, and behaviors gained in
the classroom setting to effectively demonstrate advanced social
work practice. Practicum/field experience hours: 240.
Prerequisite: SWK-620.
SWK-636: Advanced Standing Field
Instruction II
4 credits
This course finalizes the students field placement experience. It
provides a culmination of advanced clinical social work practice
with individuals, dyads, families, and small groups in approved
community agencies with professional supervision. Continued
integration and application of concepts, cognitive and affective
processes, and professional social work skills from concurrent
social work courses is practiced. Practicum/field experience
hours: 250. Prerequisite: SWK-621.
SWK-640Ω: Advanced Social Work Practice
Skills II: Groups
3 credits
The purpose of this advanced practice course is to build on
foundational learning and start to develop advanced skills in
working with groups as a complement to ongoing field
instruction. This course explores theory and practice of group
dynamics with an emphasis on the development of effective
group work skills, analysis of processes and interactions, and
values and ethics with a multi-social-cultural perspective.
Prerequisite: SWK-610.
SWK-641: Advanced Social Work Practice
Skills III: Organizations and
Communities
3 credits
The purpose of this advanced practice course is to build on
foundational learning and begin to develop advanced skills when
working with organizations and communities. The course focuses
on using micro and macro skills to impact both organizations and
communities while highlighting the importance of evaluation and
ethics. Prerequisites: SWK-516, SWK-525, and SWK-541 or
BSW degree from a CSWE-accredited program.
SWK-645Ω: Methods of Research in Social
Work II
3 credits
This course introduces students to the theory and practice of
agency- or community-based evaluation and evaluation capacity
building. Topics to be explored include standards and guiding
principles for evaluation work, evaluation approaches and
models, and evaluation methodology basics, as well as the
politics and ethics of conducting, using, and communicating
research and evaluation findings in applied settings. Prerequisite:
SWK-555 or BSW degree from a CSWE-accredited program.
SWK-690Ω: Social Work Capstone 2 credits
This is the final course in the Master of Social Work and Master
of Social Work Advanced Standing programs. It requires students
to integrate their learning from past courses and apply their
knowledge and skills in a final project. Knowledge demonstrated
includes assessment, application of theory, practice skills, ethics,
and cultural sensitivity. Prerequisite: SWK-635 or SWK-636.
Systems Management (SYM)
SYM-400: Introduction to Database
Structures
4 credits
This course examines the design, development, implementation,
and maintenance of relational database structures. Emphasis is on
appropriate application and implementation. Prerequisite: BIT200 or BIT-205 or CST-110, or CST-111 or CST-105 or ITT111.
SYM-408: Relational Databases for Business
Applications
4 credits
This course covers the characteristics of object-relational and
NoSQL databases and their application in business. The course
also focuses on the main principles of object-oriented, objectrelational, and NoSQL databases, and their relative advantages.
Students gain working knowledge of object-relational features as
implemented in standard SQL database management systems.
Students also learn to manage unstructured and semi-structured
data with XML. Prerequisite: SYM-400.
SYM-506: Applied Business Probability and
Statistics
4 credits
The purpose of this course is to prepare students in mathematical,
probability, and statistical concepts for their upcoming studies in
quantitative methods. The course is intended for those students
who have not had any prior statistical education, although
students who have had statistics should also consider taking the
course as a refresher.