Organizational Growth and Sales
(OGS)
OGS-600: Business Model Development 4 credits
This course introduces a business model development framework
for identifying opportunities for organizational growth through
innovation development and sales. Students are introduced to
needs assessment techniques and marketing and sales analytics in
order to apply problem solving strategies to identify, analyze, and
solve problems via commercialization of innovative products,
services, or business processes.
OGS-605: Customer Segmentation and
Analysis
4 credits
Students will collect and analyze consumer data to identify
customer segments for the commercialization of innovations.
Students will use methods of consumer behavior and market
analysis to establish the viability of an innovation and
competitive advantage within a target market. Prerequisite: OGS600.
OGS-610: Finance and Revenue 4 credits
Students will assess the financial viability of a business model
through identifying revenue streams generated via
commercialization of products, services, or business processes.
There is specific emphasis on pricing, costs of product
development and distribution, and business model cost structure.
Prerequisites: FIN-504 and OGS-605.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 437 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
OGS-615: Marketing and Sales Management 4 credits
This course focuses on identifying, analyzing, and managing
marketing and sales channels to drive product sales or service
delivery. Students examine customer needs analysis, sales
analytics, the sales cycle, and web-based marketing and sales
strategies. Prerequisites: SYM-506 and OGS-605.
OGS-620: Funding Organizational Growth 4 credits
This course is an overview of how to fund ventures, innovations,
and organizational growth strategies. Students research internal
and external sources of funding and learn strategies for pitching
proposals for raising capital to various stakeholders.
Prerequisites: OGS-605 and OGS-610.
OGS-625: Infrastructure and Operations 4 credits
This course focuses on scaling up operations and infrastructure to
support the growth of sales and services. Students examine legal
and licensing issues related to marketing and sales, managing
staffing and resources, and key partnerships. Prerequisites: ACC502, FIN-504, SYM-506, and OGS-605.
OGS-630: Sustaining Organizational Growth 4 credits
This course focuses on establishing an organizational culture that
fosters the creativity and innovation necessary to drive continual
product and service development and sales in today's fastchanging business market. Students are provided with skills to
lead organizational growth with an emphasis on collaboration,
sales force design, business model management, and ethics.
Prerequisite: OGS-605.
OGS-635: Launching Growth and Sales
Models
4 credits
This capstone course requires students to complete and
implement their business models and finalize their pitch to
selected stakeholders. Students validate their business plans using
sales and marketing analytics to prove the viability of their
business models. Prerequisites: OGS-600, OGS-605, OGS-610,
OGS-615, OGS-620, OGS-625 and OGS-630.
Organizational Development
(ORG)
ORG-807: Stakeholders: Roles in
Organizations
3 credits
This course examines the roles of stakeholders in a variety of
organizational structures and discusses how the type of
organization may affect the role of the stakeholder. Learners
explore the stakeholder’s role in sustaining organizational
effectiveness. Prerequisite: RES-850.
ORG-812: Organizational Theory, Structure,
and Process
3 credits
This course examines organizational structure and its influence
on organizational effectiveness and success. Learners evaluate
organizational structure and explore methods for modifying
structures. Open-systems theory is discussed. Research skills
from RES-850 and ethical considerations are applied in the
context of the course topics. Prerequisite: RES-850.
ORG-817: Systems Thinking: Building
Organizations That Last
3 credits
This course examines the shift from a traditional organizational
structure to a learning organization. It looks at the unintended
consequences of leadership decisions in the context of leading
innovation. Prerequisite: RES-861.
ORG-822: Individual Differences and
Organizational Outcomes
3 credits
This course explores the use of aggregated data to study the
relationship between individual differences and organizational
outcomes. Role differences in decision-making teams are
examined to determine how to best leverage these differences for
overall organizational effectiveness.
ORG-827: Strategic Decision Making 3 credits
The course analyzes decision-making paradigms and strategies
through the lens of critical incident analysis, cross-cultural
decision making, and collective leadership. Alignment of
strategy, vision, and decisions is discussed.
