Reading Program (REA)
REA-305: Children's Literature 4 credits
Teacher candidates survey types and purposes of literature based
on the developmental literacy needs of elementary-aged children.
Particular emphasis is dedicated to the various genres that exist
within the literature spectrum and how to utilize the different
genres, including digital text, to meet specific instructional needs
and literacy goals of elementary-aged children. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
REA-325: Literacy Interventions and
Remediation for Elementary
Education
4 credits
Teacher candidates develop strategies for literacy intervention
and remediation to foster and support student autonomy in the
classroom. Teacher candidates build knowledge and skills to plan
literacy supports in all content areas, promote self-directed
learning, and empower students to take control and set goals for
their own learning outcomes. Language and literacy development
is examined to inform intervention and remediation strategies and
practices to support readers of varying ages and ability levels,
including students with dyslexia and other reading disabilities.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: ELM-315.
REA-350: Reading Remediation and
Intervention in Early Childhood
4 credits
Teacher candidates study the early stages of reading disabilities,
including dyslexia. Emphasis is on assessment procedures in
early childhood settings and methods of early intervention and
remediation. Candidates will explore the collaboration with
stakeholders in the use of formal and informal assessment data to
support the diagnosis and remediation process in literacy.
Candidates will examine research-based strategies to support
literacy development. Prerequisite: ECS-430.
REA-365: Methods and Strategies for
Reading Instruction
4 credits
Teacher candidates survey a variety of reading instruction and
phonemic practices. Emphasis is placed on the five elements of
reading: phonics, phonemic awareness, fluency, vocabulary, and
comprehension. This survey prepares the teacher candidate to
plan and evaluate effective reading instruction that optimizes
student learning. Effective communication techniques are
reviewed and practiced with a variety of audiences teacher
candidates may encounter in a classroom. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-410: Assessment and Remediation of
Reading Proficiency
4 credits
Teacher candidates participate in introductory studies of
assessment systems for students in the classroom, identifying
reading difficulty and remediation options. Candidates will
employ the assessment process to identify reading needs in the
five essential components of literacy, and implement remediation
strategies. Candidates will review assessment tools and
communicate assessment results to a variety of audiences.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required.
REA-420: Research-Based Reading
Development and Interventions
4 credits
Teacher candidates develop deeper understanding of assessment
strategies and instructional procedures, curriculum, and
instructional alternatives, and program planning for the literacy
development of students with reading and/or writing disabilities,
including dyslexia. This course will address specific reading
development issues, and strategies that support struggling
readers. The course will focus on how, as a teacher, to participate
in tiered support systems and facilitate/provide appropriately
focused and intensive literacy instruction. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-460: Diagnosis and Remediation of
Reading Proficiencies
4 credits
Teacher candidates study the implications of reading disabilities,
assessment procedures, and methods for correction. Formal and
informal assessment procedures will be examined and applied in
practice. Candidates will explore the use of performance data as a
part of the assessment cycle to support the diagnosis and
remediation process. Teacher candidates build on this
foundational knowledge in the evaluation of abilities and
achievement in the area of literacy. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-500: Foundations in Language and
Literacy
3 credits
Reading/Literacy specialist candidates survey the theoretical and
evidence-based foundations of reading and writing processes and
instruction. This survey includes an exploration of historical
through current reading and writing development, processes, and
components. Reading/literacy specialist candidates are introduced
to ethical and professional roles. Practicum/field experience
hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Fingerprint clearance not required.
REA-510: Survey of Reading Assessments 3 credits
Reading/Literacy specialist candidates survey a variety of
assessment tools and related practices. This survey prepares the
reading/literacy specialist to use assessment results to plan and
evaluate effective reading and writing instruction that optimizes
student learning. In addition, the reading/literacy specialist
candidates develop effective communication techniques.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: REA-500.
REA-515: Advanced Studies in Reading
Assessment Systems
3 credits
Reading/literacy specialist candidates engage in advanced studies
of assessment systems to develop, select, and interpret data at the
building and district level. This advanced study of assessment
information is used to plan and evaluate curriculum and
instruction at the building and district level. In addition, the
reading/literacy specialist candidates communicate assessment
results to a variety of audiences. Practicum/field experience
hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: REA-510.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: REA-510.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 464 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
REA-520: Introductory Instructional Methods
for Elementary Reading and
Writing
3 credits
Reading/Literacy specialist candidates survey instructional
approaches and materials that support student learning in reading
and writing. This survey prepares the reading/literacy specialist
candidates to design an integrated, comprehensive, and balanced
curriculum. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required. Practicum/field experience hours: 10.
Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-525: Introductory Instructional Methods
for Secondary Reading and Writing
3 credits
Reading specialist/literacy coach candidates survey instructional
approaches and materials that support student learning in reading
and writing. This survey prepares the reading specialist/literacy
coach candidates to design an integrated, comprehensive, and
balanced curriculum. Practicum/field experience hours: 10.
Fingerprint clearance required.
REA-540: Advanced Studies in Methods for
Elementary Content Reading and
Writing
3 credits
Reading specialist/literacy coach candidates engage in advanced
studies of instructional approaches and materials at the building
and district level that support student learning in reading and
writing across content areas. From this advanced study, the
reading specialist/literacy coach candidates design an integrated,
comprehensive, and balanced curriculum. Practicum/field
experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance required.
Prerequisite: REA-520.
REA-545: Advanced Studies in Methods for
Secondary Content Reading and
Writing
3 credits
Reading specialist/literacy coach candidates engage in advanced
studies of instructional approaches and materials at the building
and district level that support secondary students’ learning in
reading and writing across content areas. From this advanced
study, the reading specialist/literacy coach candidates design an
integrated, comprehensive, and balanced curriculum.
Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint clearance
required. Prerequisite: REA-525.
REA-550: Literate Environments 3 credits
Reading/Literacy specialist candidates create a literate
environment that fosters reading and writing by integrating
foundational knowledge, instructional practices, approaches and
methods, curriculum materials, and the appropriate use of
assessments. Practicum/field experience hours: 10. Fingerprint
clearance required. Prerequisite: REA-515 or REA-522.
REA-560: Professional Learning and
Leadership in Literacy
3 credits
Reading specialist/literacy coach candidates survey professional
learning and leadership models for promoting literacy.
emphasizing positive dispositions, individual and collaborative
learning, the ability to design and evaluate professional learning
experiences, the importance of advocacy, and a need for
knowledge about adult learning and school leadership. From this
survey, reading specialist/literacy coach candidates demonstrate
and facilitate professional learning and leadership as a careerlong effort and responsibility. Practicum/field experience hours:
10. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: REA-550.
REA-570Ω: Elementary Practicum in Reading 3 credits
The practicum experience requires reading specialist/literacy
coach candidates to implement literacy intervention instruction
that is designed to meet the specific needs of students and engage
in research and analysis to support compilation and creation of a
Literacy Work Sample (LWS). In addition, the candidates coach
and provide support to other teachers to think reflectively about
improving student learning and implementing various
instructional practices. Practicum/field experience hours: 75.
Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: REA-540.
REA-580Ω: Secondary Practicum in Reading 3 credits
The practicum experience requires reading/literacy specialist
candidates to implement literacy intervention instruction at the
secondary level that is designed to meet the specific needs of
students and engage in research and analysis to support
compilation and creation of a Literacy Work Sample (LWS). In
addition, the candidates provide support to other teachers to think
reflectively about improving student learning and implementing
various instructional practices. Practicum/field experience hours:
75. Fingerprint clearance required. Prerequisite: REA-545.
Research (RES)
RES-811Ω: Introduction to Advanced
Graduate Studies and Scholarship
3 credits
This course introduces students to the principal elements of
research and scholarly writing. Learners explore approaches to
synthesizing literature and the application of the major
components of APA form and style, and learn to coordinate
literature searches. Furthermore, they learn how to discern
principal arguments, analyze research questions, and clearly
identify the key scholarly attributes to journal articles and other
sources of scholarly data. This course also introduces learners to
the University’s overarching values and beliefs regarding
research and the responsibility scholars have in continuing a
tradition of contributing to an ever-growing body of knowledge.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 465 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
RES-815: Introduction to Research 3 credits
This course introduces doctoral learners to the principle elements
of research, scholarly writing, and effective argumentation.
Learners are made aware of the dispositions and expectations of
doctoral researchers as well as the University’s overarching
values and beliefs regarding research and the responsibility of
scholars to contribute new knowledge to their respective fields of
study. Learners begin the process of identifying a researchable
dissertation topic and are acquainted with appropriate scholarly
resources that support the development of the dissertation.
RES-820A: The Literature Landscape:
Organizational Leadership
3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to the critical reading of
scholarly qualitative and quantitative literature at the doctoral
level. Learners also explore the concept of synthesizing the
scholarly literature to identify problems and problem spaces that
emerge to form a researchable topic of study. The application of
scholarly argumentation from the extant literature to defend the
need for a research study is discussed.
RES-820B: The Literature Landscape:
Teaching and Learning
3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to the critical reading of
scholarly qualitative and quantitative literature at the doctoral
level. Learners also explore the concept of synthesizing the
scholarly literature to identify problems and problem spaces that
emerge to form a researchable topic of study. The application of
scholarly argumentation from the extant literature to defend the
need for a research study is discussed.
RES-820C: The Literature Landscape:
Psychology
3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to the critical reading of
scholarly qualitative and quantitative literature at the doctoral
level. Learners also explore the concept of synthesizing the
scholarly literature to identify problems and problem spaces that
emerge to form a researchable topic of study. The application of
scholarly argumentation from the extant literature to defend the
need for a research study is discussed.
RES-820D: The Literature Landscape:
Counselor Education and
Supervision
3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to the critical reading of
scholarly qualitative and quantitative literature at the doctoral
level. Learners also explore the concept of synthesizing the
scholarly literature to identify problems and problem spaces that
emerge to form a researchable topic of study. The application of
scholarly argumentation from the extant literature to defend the
need for a research study is discussed.
RES-820E: The Literature Landscape:
Business
3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to the critical reading of
scholarly qualitative and quantitative literature at the doctoral
level. Learners also explore the concept of synthesizing the
scholarly literature to identify problems and problem spaces that
emerge to form a researchable topic of study. The application of
scholarly argumentation from the extant literature to defend the
need for a research study is discussed.
RES-820G: The Literature Landscape: Health
Administration
3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to the critical reading of
scholarly qualitative and quantitative literature at the doctoral
level. Learners also explore the concept of synthesizing the
scholarly literature to identify problems and problem spaces that
emerge to form a researchable topic of study. The application of
scholarly argumentation from the extant literature to defend the
need for a research study is discussed.
RES-825Ω: Theories of Inquiry 3 credits
The course provides an overview of the approaches to inquiry
and the methods applied to gain knowledge of the human
condition including epistemology and hermeneutic interpretation.
These approaches and methods are contrasted with those applied
to inquiry in the natural sciences. Consideration is given to the
broader social and cultural components that contribute to the
refinement of existing knowledge and the creation of new
knowledge in the social and human sciences.
RES-831: Foundations of Research Design 1 3 credits
In this course, learners are introduced to key components of
qualitative and quantitative research designs and the means to
critically appraise the application of research designs as observed
in the scholarly literature. The University's core research designs
are presented. Consideration is given to the initial selection and
defense of a research design to address a problem that emerged
from the extant literature.
RES-832: Foundations of Research Design 2 3 credits
This course provides an introduction to the sampling, data
collection, and data analysis methods employed in qualitative and
quantitative research designs. Learners explore the alignment of
sampling, data collection, and data analysis methods to the
research topic, research questions, and research design. The
course positions learners to select qualitative or quantitative
designs for their dissertation studies. Prerequisite: RES-831.
RES-841: Designing a Qualitative Study 1 3 credits
In this course, learners explore the basic components of GCU
qualitative core research designs including descriptive, case
study, and phenomenology. The nature of epistemological
foundations and the structure of problem statements, purpose
statements, research questions, data sources, collection and
analysis approaches are discussed in the context of each design.
RES-842: Designing a Quantitative Study 1 3 credits
In this course, learners explore the basic components of
quantitative research design. Attention is given to variables,
instrumentation, and sources of data. Reliability and validity of
instrumentation is discussed in the context of GCU core
quantitative research designs.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 466 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
RES-843: Designing a Qualitative Study 2 3 credits
In this course, learners differentiate the epistemological
foundations and explore the data trustworthiness, research ethics,
and potential for bias in descriptive, case study, and
phenomenology research designs. The process of building a
rationale for design choice and aligning the research questions,
interview questions, problem statement, and purpose statement is
addressed. Sources of qualitative data are introduced for each
design, and ethical aspects of research are discussed. Prerequisite:
RES-841.
RES-844: Designing a Quantitative Study 2 3 credits
In this course, learners interact with statistical tests and statistical
analysis software in the context of designing a quantitative
research study. Alignment of statistical tests to research
questions, hypotheses and design is stressed as is determining the
feasibility of a quantitative research study. Ethical aspects of
research are discussed. Prerequisite: RES-842.
RES-845Ω: Statistics 3 credits
This course provides a study of theories of probability,
descriptive and inferential analyses of data, and testing of
statistical hypotheses. Practical experience is provided in the
application of statistical methods.
RES-850Ω: Foundations for Research 3 credits
This course provides a broad overview of foundational elements
for conducting independent, original research. Qualitative,
quantitative, and mixed research methods are introduced and
applied. The template for developing a research prospectus is also
introduced, with emphasis on identifying a researchable topic
related to the learners’ degree specialization. Prerequisite: RES811.
RES-855Ω: Qualitative Research Methods 3 credits
This course provides students with an overview of qualitative
methods and offers students the opportunity to apply and
interpret qualitative research. Topics include data collection, data
analysis, appropriate qualitative inquiry, and theories of
qualitative methods.
RES-861Ω: Analysis of Existing Research 3 credits
This course is designed to train learners in the conduct of a
systematic literature review related to their research topic.
Emphasis is placed on creating structure for reading, analyzing,
synthesizing, and organizing prior research necessary for drafting
the first iteration (draft) of Chapter 2 of the dissertation. Learners
use the research prospectus template to guide the development of
their Chapter 2. Prerequisite: RES-850 or MGT-810 or RES-825.
RES-866Ω: Approaches to Research Design
and Data Analysis
3 credits
This course provides learners with an overview of qualitative,
quantitative, and mixed methods approaches with emphasis on
conceptual and practical aspects of data collection, management,
and analysis. Learners use their research prospectus to align the
research question(s) and variables of interest with the appropriate
data collection and analytical techniques. Prerequisite: RES-861.
RES-873: Qualitative Data Collection and
Management
3 credits
In this course, learners explore qualitative data collection
techniques and sources of qualitative data in the context of
answering the research questions posed by a study. Consideration
is given to the recognition of data saturation and the management
of data. Learners continue to work with their respective
dissertation chairs to prepare a written statement of data
collection, and management activities. Prerequisite: RES-843.
RES-874: Quantitative Data Collection and
Statistical Mechanics
3 credits
In this course, learners focus on data collection, data preparation
and management, and the analysis of quantitative data to produce
written research findings, results, and implications. Learners
continue to work with their respective dissertation chairs and
apply information from this course to move ahead in the
dissertation process. Prerequisite: RES-844.
RES-880Ω: Formalizing the Research
Prospectus
3 credits
Learners complete a cogent research prospectus as the foundation
for their dissertation research proposal. Emphasis is placed on
fully articulating a study design and methodology that is aligned
with the research questions and developing the first iteration
(draft) of Chapter 3 of the dissertation. Prerequisite: RES-855 or
RES-866.
RES-883: Qualitative Data Analysis, Results
and Findings
3 credits
In this course, learners focus on the interpretation of qualitative
data to produce written research findings, results, and
implications. Learners continue to work with their respective
dissertation chairs and apply information from this course to
move ahead in the dissertation process. Prerequisite: RES-873.
RES-884: Quantitative Data Analysis,
Results, and Findings
3 credits
In this course, learners focus on the interpretation of quantitative
data to produce written research findings, results, and
implications. Learners continue to work with their respective
dissertation chairs and apply information from this course to
move ahead in the dissertation process. Prerequisite: RES-874.
RES-885Ω: Developing the Research Proposal 3 credits
In this course, learners formalize their research proposal specific
to their topic. Emphasis is placed on fully developing Chapter 1
and incorporating Chapters 2 and 3 (drafts) from previous
research courses. This proposal becomes the first three chapters
of the dissertation upon approval of the final draft by the College
of Doctoral Studies. Prerequisite: RES-880.
Residency (RSD)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 467 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
RSD-851Ω: Residency: Dissertation 3 credits
This residency allows learners to continue developing their skills
as academic researchers. Learners will have hands-on experience
applying quantitative and qualitative design principals to develop
the foundational elements for their potential dissertation studies.
Prerequisite: RES-850, RES-825, RES-831, or RCS-831.
RSD-881Ω: Residency: Presentation of
Progress or Results
3 credits
This residency prepares students to present their scholarly work
and to thoughtfully critique the work of others. Students orally
present papers developed in their own classes and respond to
questions from colleagues. Students are further prepared to
become active members in academic communities by learning
how to review papers and provide comments.
RSD-883: Residency: The Qualitative
Dissertation
3 credits
In this residency, learners orally present and defend an expanded
design of their preliminary dissertation research from RSD-851.
Emphasis is placed on developing the qualitative dissertation.
Prerequisite: RES-843.
RSD-884: Residency: The Quantitative
Dissertation
3 credits
In this residency, learners orally present and defend an expanded
design of their preliminary dissertation research from RSD-851.
Emphasis is placed on developing the quantitative dissertation.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. RES-844.
RSD-951Ω: Residency: Dissertation Intensive
Seminar
3 credits
This intensive seminar focuses on development of the dissertation
proposal and the creation of forward momentum toward
completion of the dissertation. Learners will receive specific
personal guidance in these endeavors.
RSD-952Ω: Residency: Dissertation Intensive
Seminar
0 credits
This intensive seminar focuses on development of the dissertation
proposal and the creation of forward momentum toward
completion of the dissertation. Learners will receive specific
personal guidance in these endeavors.
Risk Management (RSM)
RSM-435: Property and Casualty Insurance 4 credits
This course introduces students to homeowners, renters, and auto
insurance. Students identify and measure direct and indirect
property loss exposures and the insurance coverages used to
transfer such exposures. Commercial liability and property
protection coverages are also explored. Prerequisite: FIN-350.
RSM-445: Life and Health Insurance 4 credits
This course explores life and health insurance. The principles of
life and health insurance and their applications are discussed.
Students learn how insurance products protect in the event of a
death or medical issue. Prerequisite: FIN-350.
RSM-465: Global Risk Management Practices 4 credits
This course applies risk management concepts to identify and
analyze internal and external risks that affect businesses. The
course includes in-depth analysis and quantification of an
organization’s risk profile and explores numerous risk control
methodologies as well as methods to finance an organization's
risk through various techniques. Prerequisite: FIN-431.
RSM-485: Implementing Risk Management
Strategies
4 credits
This capstone course is the culmination of study into the risk
management discipline and provides students with an opportunity
to develop and apply the risk management process to an
organization. The course includes enterprise risk management
(ERM) and organizational risk management (ORM) concepts.
The ERM strategies are used to mitigate risks to support
company objectives and pursue profitable growth. Prerequisite:
RSM-465.
