Intercultural Ministries (INT)
INT-101: God-Centered Missions Lab 1 credits
This lab explores the "who" and the "why" of Christian missions
in connection with short-term missions through an exploration of
the mission of God in connection with each student's unique
sense of calling and vocation. Coursework entails intentionally
connecting God-focused missional awareness with active factfinding and preparation for mission work within selected local
and international contexts. This lab is designed to be an
interactive, community experience which is not available via
independent study.
INT-102: Cross-Cultural Missions Lab 1 credits
This lab prepares students to articulate and share the gospel with
others through personal testimony, economic wisdom, basic
biblical instruction, and discipleship with attention to the
dynamics of communicating the Christian message across
cultures. This lab is designed to be an interactive, community
experience which is not available via independent study.
INT-201: Missional Skills Lab 1 credits
This lab equips students to progress from basic biblical discovery
to missional engagement within the context of short-term
missions through various skills-based projects and activities. This
lab is designed to be an interactive, community experience which
is not available via independent study.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 385 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
INT-202: Short-Term Missions Lab 1 credits
This lab focuses on constructing and implementing short-term
missions strategies, such as medical education, children's
ministry, youth ministry, and Christian service within various
missional settings for the purpose of making disciples. This lab is
designed to be an interactive, community experience which is not
available via independent study.
INT-244: World Religions 4 credits
This course is a study of the major contemporary religions of the
world including Abrahamic religions, Eastern religions, and other
religions. The course covers religious texts, historical
background, and current beliefs and practices. Emphasis is given
to the ideological foundations of a Christian worldview, a
comparison of worldviews, and the application of worldviews
within a global society.
INT-310∆҂: Christianity in a Global Context 4 credits
This writing intensive course is a survey of global Christianity
that examines the mission and purposes of God and His people
among the nations. Emphasis is placed on the analysis of recent
mission movements, best practices for mission strategies, and
contemporary trends in global Christianity. Prerequisite: HTH201.
INT310HN∆҂:
Christianity in a Global Context 4 credits
This writing intensive course is a survey of global Christianity
that examines the mission and purposes of God and His people
among the nations. Emphasis is placed on the analysis of recent
mission movements, best practices for mission strategies, and
contemporary trends in global Christianity. Prerequisites: HTH201 and HTH-202.
INT-320: Evangelism and Discipleship 4 credits
This course prepares students to listen carefully to a person of
another religion or worldview in order to effectively tailor a
gospel presentation that accurately presents the claims of Christ
and respectfully considers the hearer. For individuals who are
responsive to the gospel, it provides sound practices for
continuing and deepening the new believer’s relationship with
Jesus.
INT-450: Anthropology for Cross-Cultural
Ministry
4 credits
This course examines principles of anthropology within the
context of missiology for the purpose of developing a tool kit that
will enable students to analyze and engage people groups living
within various cultural contexts. Attention is given to multiple
dimensions of human culture as well as issues related to social
justice and biblical mercy. Prerequisite: INT-244.
INT-460: Christianity and Culture 4 credits
This course examines principles and methods for faithfully
ministering within the Late Modern context in a way that is
meaningful to people from diverse backgrounds. Attention is
given to the influence of Christianity on culture and vice versa
during the 20th and 21st centuries as well as issues related to
social justice and biblical mercy. Emphasis is placed on North
American cultural engagement with apologetic concern and
sensitivity to contemporary values.
INT-494: Short-Term Missions Experience 4 credits
This course consists of a practicum experience in a local or
international missions setting under the guidance of an approved
supervisor. The course reinforces all missions lab competencies,
practical experiences, academic journaling, as well as a field
experience log, and culminating reflection assignment. Students
are responsible for all costs associated with a selected missions
experience and should begin the practicum application process
after completion of a minimum of two mission lab courses (INT101, INT-102, INT-201, and/or INT-202). Practicum/field
experience hours: 180.
INT-510: Biblical Foundations of Urban
Ministry
4 credits
The course provides a biblical foundation for urban ministry and
equips students with an overarching understanding of basic
principles for effective urban ministry. Students develop
understanding of the crucial position of the local assembly of
believers, the history, and the various best practices for culture
transformative urban ministry. This course requires supervised
ministry hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 45.
INT-525: Christian Worldview and Mission 4 credits
An introduction to the biblical, historical, and theological bases
for the cross-cultural contextualization of the Christian
worldview with attention to sound missiological practices.
Special emphasis is placed on cross-cultural communication and
ministry in light of contemporary topics and practical exigencies.
This course is offered in residency for non-traditional students.
INT-535: The Christian Faith and World
Religions
4 credits
This course is an investigation of major world religions and
ideologies from an evangelical perspective with the goal of
building bridges cross-culturally. Attention is given to historical
backgrounds, religious texts and traditions, contemporary belief
and practices, and careful consideration of the appropriate
Christian response to non-Christian religious systems.
INT-545: Anthropological Principles 4 credits
This course examines principles of anthropology for crosscultural ministry including analysis of symbols, social structures,
customs, thought forms, and social norms.
INT-625: Multicultural Ministry and
Contextualization
4 credits
This course introduces students to the basic competencies needed
for ministry in a multicultural setting. Students explore social
services, community building, holistic ministry strategies, and
how to contextualize the Good News of Christ without
compromising its integrity. This course requires supervised
ministry hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 45.
INT-630: Issues in Urban Ministry 4 credits
This course is an examination of how the church’s mission
expresses itself in the urban setting and the ethical implications
for decisions made in urban ministry. This course requires
supervised ministry hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 45.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 386 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
INT-655: Contextualized Church Planting 4 credits
This course is a study of theories, models, and practices for
planting and developing self-sustaining churches that are
authentic to the culture within international contexts.
INT-675: Global Christianity 4 credits
This course is a historical, theological, and missiological study of
global Christianity that examines the mission and purposes of
God and His people among the nations. Emphasis is placed on
the relationship between historical developments and current
trends with a view to the implementation of prudent strategies for
contemporary cross-cultural ministry.
Probability and Statistics for
Industrial Engineering (ISE)
ISE-301: Probability and Statistics for
Industrial Engineering & Lab
4 credits
This course introduces basic concepts in applied statistics for
industrial engineers, beginning with foundational probability
theory, descriptive statistics, sampling, and hypothesis testing.
Linear regression and forecasting methods will be augmented by
software for calculations and analysis. Relevant applications to
quality processes in industrial engineering will be discussed,
including Six Sigma and control charting. Prerequisite: MAT262.
ISE-350: Lean Work Design & Lab 4 credits
This course introduces the design process associated with a
manual production system and the need to meet customer
demand. Capacity analysis and productivity performance metrics
necessary to achieve customer demand will be demonstrated
including throughput, inventory, line balancing and quality.
Process flow, plant layout and workplace organization as related
to meeting customer needs and eliminating waste will be
discussed and demonstrated in the lab. Prerequisite: ISE-301.
ISE-401: Decision Science 4 credits
This course will introduce the idea of mathematical modeling for
the purpose of logical decision-making. Operations research and
optimization techniques will be introduced and demonstrated to
determine extreme values of real-world objective functions like
maximizing profit or minimizing loss. Visual software tools,
including discrete event simulation models, will demonstrate
applications in a variety of industries. Prerequisite: ISE-301.
ISE-450: Human Work Design & Lab 4 credits
This course provides an introduction to design of the workplace
that meets health and safety needs of a human worker and
productivity needs of the industry necessary to meet customer
expectations. Workplace ergonomics, including anthropometry
and biomechanics, will demonstrate the need for human workers
to be protected from hazards and treated as a valuable asset in the
workplace. Regulatory issues and ethical responsibilities related
to human beings interacting in the workplace will also be
discussed. Prerequisite: ISE-301.
ISE-473: Sustainable Design for Industrial
Engineering I & Lab
2 credits
This design course sequence provides an opportunity for the
senior student to define, plan, and solve an engineering problem.
Life-cycle engineering and sustainability principles of caring for
people, the planet, and profit will be introduced, along with
regulatory issues required by the project. Tools and skills
acquired in the engineering curriculum will be used to define
project requirements and design criteria for a real-world project.
By the end of this first course in the two-part sequence, a project
will be clearly defined for follow-up in the next course with a
project timing plan to complete the DMAIC process.
Prerequisite: ISE-350. Co-Requisite: ESG-451.
ISE-474∆
: Sustainable Design for Industrial
Engineering II & Lab
2 credits
This design course sequence provides an opportunity for the
senior student to define, plan, and solve an engineering problem.
The previously defined project will be reviewed for clarity before
assessing further needs. Tools and skills acquired in the
engineering curriculum will be used to measure, analyze,
improve, and control according to the DMAIC process. By the
end of this second course in the two-part sequence, a project will
have completed the DMAIC process through the creation of a
sustainable design plan to fulfill the needs of the project. This is a
writing intensive course. Prerequisite: ISE-473.
ISE-480: Automation for Manufacturing and
Distribution & Lab
4 credits
This course introduces the basic concepts of automation within
the manufacturing workplace. The advantages and limitations of
including robotics and automated systems in the manufacturing
environment will be discussed, including the cost-benefit analysis
of manual and automated processes. Workplace layout and the
design of the human-machine interface, including its effects on
the process and product, will be discussed and demonstrated.
Prerequisites: ISE-350 and ISE-450.
Information Technology (ITT)
ITT-111: Introduction to Information
Technology
4 credits
This course provides an introduction to the role of computing
technology within business and corporate environments.
Introductions to concepts, terminologies, and a wide use of
relevant daily software and tools relevant to any career in the
information technology field. Topics include: Technologyintegrated academics, digital networking concepts, systems
administration and maintenance, information security, database
and transactional systems, cloud technologies, scripting, and
project management. Prerequisite: MAT-154 or MAT-261.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 387 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ITT-116: Platforms and Network
Technologies
4 credits
This course exposes students to the fundamentals of networks
and networking in IT. It then builds deeper understanding of how
networks work, including the topics of LANs, WANs, service
providers, packets, hubs, routers, switches, and Internet
protocols. The laboratory reinforces and expands learning of
principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on
setting up and configuring local and enterprise networks,
experimenting with various topologies, and scalability planning
with routers and switches. Prerequisite: CST-111 or ITT-111 or
CST-105 or acceptance into the bootcamp program.
ITT-116N: Platforms and Network
Technologies
4 credits
This course exposes students to the fundamentals of networks
and networking in IT. It then builds deeper understanding of how
networks work, including the topics of LANs, WANs, service
providers, packets, hubs, routers, switches, and Internet
protocols. The laboratory reinforces and expands learning of
principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on
setting up and configuring local and enterprise networks,
experimenting with various topologies, and scalability planning
with routers and switches. Prerequisite: CST-111 or CST-105.
Prerequisite: CST-111 or CST-105 or acceptance into the
bootcamp program.
ITT-121: System Administration and
Maintenance
4 credits
This course introduces students to system administration and
maintenance as well as platform technologies. The course
surveys operating systems, applications, administrative activities
and domains, computer architecture and organization, and
computing infrastructures. The laboratory reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on
activities focus on developing practical skills in configuring
computer systems, deploying enterprise applications, managing
user permissions, and remote administration. Prerequisite: ITT116.
ITT-201: Cloud-based Computing and
Systems
4 credits
This course covers fundamental web technologies and systems,
including web site architecture, self-descriptive text, web site
design, web navigational systems, database integration, and
digital media streaming. The laboratory reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on
activities focus on writing code that implements server-side
methods for accessing databases, deliver content, render web
pages, and connect application servers, database servers, and web
servers, and security layers. Prerequisite: CST-111 or MAT-154.
ITT-210: Low Level Programming 4 credits
This course is an introduction to assembly language
programming. Assembly language topics may include machine
representation of data, fixed and floating point, and decimal
arithmetic, address modification, bit manipulation, and
subroutine linkage. Practicum/field experience hours: None. Low
Level Programming. Prerequisite: ITT-310.
ITT-216: Enterprise Route & Switch 4 credits
This course focuses on advanced router and switch configuration
for use in large and enterprise networks. Topics include dynamic
routing, network security and access control, network address
translation, wide area network implementations, virtualization,
management, design, troubleshooting and automation.
Implementation and troubleshooting of advanced routing
technologies and services including Layer 3 VPN, Infrastructure
security, and infrastructure services. Prerequisite: ITT-116.
ITT-221: Linux System Administration and
Maintenance
4 credits
This course is focused on Linux server administration and
maintenance within a corporate networking context. In addition
to server installation, students will learn configuration and
troubleshooting along with a variety of command-line and
Graphical User Interface utilities and applications. Prerequisite:
ITT-121.
ITT-250: Service Oriented Architecture 4 credits
This course teaches students to design and develop secure
enterprise applications in a service oriented approach, both in
theory and in practice. Students explore SOA concepts with an
emphasis on cybersecurity and develop a working knowledge of
web services. Design and develop web services with industry
standard development tools. Prerequisite: ITT-115 or ITT-116.
ITT-270҂: Routing and Switching 4 credits
In this course students acquire the ability to install, configure,
operate, and troubleshoot medium sized routed and switched
networks. Students gain the knowledge and skills to make
connections to remote sites via a WAN, and mitigate basic
security threats. Prerequisite: ITT-116.
ITT-270HN҂: Routing and Switching 4 credits
In this course students acquire the ability to install, configure,
operate, and troubleshoot medium sized routed and switched
networks. Students gain the knowledge and skills to make
connections to remote sites via a WAN, and mitigate basic
security threats. Prerequisite: ITT-115 or ITT-116.
ITT-305: Information Security I 2 credits
This course builds upon knowledge already acquired in the areas
of system architecture and operating systems and focuses on the
core issues of information security. Students learn fundamental
aspects, security mechanisms, operational issues, security
policies, and attack types. Prerequisite: ITT-121 or CST-210 or
CST-221.
ITT-306: Information Security II 2 credits
This course is a direct continuation of ITT-305. It expands the
coverage of information security topics to include security
domains, forensics, information states, security services, threat
analysis, and vulnerabilities. Prerequisite: ITT-305.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 388 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ITT-307: Cybersecurity Foundations 4 credits
This course builds upon knowledge already acquired in the areas
of system architecture and operating systems and focuses on the
core issues of information security. Students learn fundamental
concepts of information security including data encryption,
security awareness, legal and ethical issues, operational issues,
security policies, and attack types; while expanding on the
coverage to include security domains, forensics, security services,
threat analysis, and vulnerabilities assessments. Prerequisite:
ITT-120, or ITT-121 or CST-125 or CST-126 or CST-220 or
CST-221 or acceptance into the bootcamp program.
ITT-307N: Cybersecurity Foundations 4 credits
This course builds upon knowledge already acquired in the areas
of system architecture and operating systems and focuses on the
core issues of information security. Students learn fundamental
concepts of information security including data encryption,
security awareness, legal and ethical issues, operational issues,
security policies, and attack types; while expanding on the
coverage to include security domains, forensics, security services,
threat analysis, and vulnerabilities assessments. Prerequisite:
ITT-120, or ITT-121 or CST-125 or CST-126 or CST-220 or
CST-221 or acceptance into the bootcamp program.
ITT-310: Programming for Security
Professionals
4 credits
Students will be introduced to a high level programming
language, within a common desktop environment, in the context
of IT and Cybersecurity. Students will utilize development tools,
programming language syntax, control constructs, loops and
decision making, user defined functions, pointers, and memory
management. Prerequisite: MAT-154.
ITT-316҂
: Edge Networks 4 credits
This course merges the advanced corporate infrastructure skills
with emerging technologies that streamline how computing and
network resources are accessed and utilized. Concepts in this
course include wireless and mobile networking, telephone,
Internet of Things (IOT), and the infrastructures required to build
and maintain elastic systems and communications availability.
Prerequisite: ITT-216.
ITT-321҂
: Cloud Systems Administration and
Maintenance
4 credits
This course is focused on enterprise cloud computing solutions,
including migrations strategies for applications, strategies,
workflows, and systems. Students develop the skills necessary to
analyze, recommend, and implement multiple-vendor cloud
solutions. Prerequisite: ITT-221.
ITT-340: Cybersecurity and Ethical Hacking 4 credits
This course covers mathematical models for computer security. It
analyzes and compares the properties of various models for
hardware, software, and database security. The course examines
how system designs, network protocols, and software engineering
practices can result in vulnerabilities. Students learn to design,
evaluate, ethically hack, and implement adequate security
measures that can safeguard sensitive information. Prerequisite:
ITT-307.
ITT-340N: Cybersecurity and Ethical Hacking 4 credits
This course covers mathematical models for computer security. It
analyzes and compares the properties of various models for
hardware, software, and database security. The course examines
how system designs, network protocols, and software engineering
practices can result in vulnerabilities. Students learn to design,
evaluate, ethically hack, and implement adequate security
measures that can safeguard sensitive information. Prerequisite:
ITT-307N.
ITT-370: Wireless Networks 4 credits
This course covers advanced topics in networking with an
emphasis on securing wireless and IP networks. Students analyze
algorithms and protocols, improve existing solutions, and
evaluate existing solutions using theoretical analysis and
simulations. Students become familiar with modern networking
architectures. Prerequisite: ITT-270.
ITT-375: Cyber Forensic Investigations 4 credits
This course covers the processes and goals of cyber forensics
investigations. Hands-on activities include using multiple
reporting systems to initiate and provide on-going support for
information security investigations relating to data privacy,
incident management, data loss prevention, and digital forensics.
Prerequisite: ITT-307.
ITT-375N: Cyber Forensic Investigations 4 credits
This course covers the processes and goals of cyber forensics
investigations. Hands-on activities include using multiple
reporting systems to initiate and provide on-going support for
information security investigations relating to data privacy,
incident management, data loss prevention, and digital forensics.
Prerequisite: ITT-307N.
ITT-380: Information Assurance 4 credits
Information Assurance is explored from the perspective of
frameworks and technical compliance. Students will be exposed
to the idea that proper understanding of, and implementation of
frameworks and compliance has recently become a requirement
for many security careers. Students will perform in-depth
analysis of the needs of the system juxtaposed against the
requirement to comply with a mandated framework.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. Information Assurance.
Prerequisite: ITT-307.
ITT-415҂
: IT Business Case Planning for
Global Enterprise
4 credits
This course prepares students to plan and implement IT systems
that take into account business realities, objectives, and
constraints associated with domestic and international business
activities. The course exposes the key computational, analytical,
and decision-making tools used by businesses. Students also
develop an understanding of the social, cultural drivers of
successful IT investments, and their effect on business strategy
and models. A special emphasis is placed on the symbiotic
relationship between information technology and business and on
international case studies, as manifested in information pricing,
technological lock-in and network effects. Prerequisite: CST-326
or BIT-415 or CYB-220.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 389 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ITT-415HN҂
: IT Business Case Planning for
Global Enterprise
4 credits
This course prepares students to plan and implement IT systems
that take into account business realities, objectives, and
constraints associated with domestic and international business
activities. The course exposes the key computational, analytical,
and decision-making tools used by businesses. Students also
develop an understanding of the social, cultural drivers of
successful IT investments, and their effect on business strategy
and models. A special emphasis is placed on the symbiotic
relationship between information technology and business and on
international case studies, as manifested in information pricing,
technological lock-in and network effects. Prerequisite: CST-326
or BIT-415.
ITT-420: Big Data Systems 4 credits
This course focuses on data-intensive problems in the context of
large sensor networks, simulations, and social networks. Scalable
algorithms and data management technologies are examined in
detail. Students explore data analysis and management techniques
applied to big data sets in distributed environments. Specifically,
the course focuses on the map-reduce paradigm, distributed file
systems, NoSQL databases, and machine learning methods.
Students learn to design highly scalable systems that can analyze
massive amounts of data for scientific or social applications.
Prerequisite: SYM-408 or CST-217.
ITT-425: Analysis, Design, and Management
of Secure Corporate Networks
4 credits
This course covers strategies and plans for development and
operation of the Security Operations Center (SOC). Students gain
the knowledge and skills to use technologies to detect and
prevent network intrusion and implement cybersecurity
countermeasures. Prerequisites: ITT-340 and ITT-375.
ITT-430: Security Driven Systems
Administration
4 credits
This course covers the design, management, and maintenance of
virtual enterprise and datacenter infrastructure. Students learn to
use appropriate tools such as request tracking, monitoring,
configuration management, virtualization, and scripting to
administer and defend systems using documented, repeatable
processes. Emphasis will be placed on volume management,
directory services, and network-based authentication and file
systems. Students develop automatic procedures for installations
and file distribution. Prerequisites: MAT-154 and ITT-307.
ITT-450: Cloud Technologies, Systems, and
Applications Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course builds upon knowledge acquired in ITT-200 and
provides students with first-hand experience with the latest cloudrelated concepts, systems, and tools. Students learn how to
construct and secure a private cloud-computing environment
using open source solutions, learn how to federate it with external
clouds, learn how to configure SaaS servers, and learn how to
enable cloud-based business applications. Students also learn to
evaluate cloud-based solutions in terms of performance, security,
cost, usability, and utility. Students are expected to learn and
demonstrate practical elements. The laboratory reinforces and
expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Handson activities focus on interaction, utilization, and configuration of
cloud-based systems for a variety of business applications.
Prerequisite: ITT-200.
ITT-450HN҂
: Cloud Technologies, Systems, and
Applications Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course builds upon knowledge acquired in ITT-200 and
provides students with first-hand experience with the latest cloudrelated concepts, systems, and tools. Students learn how to
construct and secure a private cloud-computing environment
using open source solutions, learn how to federate it with external
clouds, learn how to configure SaaS servers, and learn how to
enable cloud-based business applications. Students also learn to
evaluate cloud-based solutions in terms of performance, security,
cost, usability, and utility. Students are expected to learn and
demonstrate practical elements. The laboratory reinforces and
expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Handson activities focus on interaction, utilization, and configuration of
cloud-based systems for a variety of business applications.
Prerequisite: ITT-200.
ITT-455∆Ω: IT Project 4 credits
This course provides students the opportunity to work in teams to
tackle real world applied research and design projects in their
chosen area of interest. Students develop a project proposal,
conduct a feasibility study, learn to protect intellectual property,
develop teamwork skills, budgets, and a schedule for completing
the project. Students conduct extensive research, integrate
information from multiple sources, and work with a mentor
through multiple cycles of feedback and revisions. Students
implement and present the applied research project. Students use
this course to further develop technical writing and business
presentation skills. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisite: ITT-415 or ITT-430.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 390 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
ITT-490∆҂: IT Project Management Capstone 4 credits
In this course, students apply the knowledge and skills used in
previous courses to develop an IT Project proposal required for
new innovative process. The course builds on the knowledge
gathered during student’s journey through IT program. It gives
them the ability to work on an emerging IT project while
gathering very practical experience. This involves critiquing the
current scope of IT and use a practical research approach to
construct the project proposal. The students will be required to
develop project components such as vision, budget, risk
management, and timeline. Project teams will be assigned and
throughout the semester, these teams present ideas to both peers
and the instructor, who provide feedback and insight into what it
takes build a successful project. Students will be required to work
on a complex and real-life problem related to IT studies. In doing
so, the Capstone makes the link between the academic discourse
and the world thereafter. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisite: ITT-430.
ITT-610: IT Development and Cloud
Computing
4 credits
This course examines the two meanings of Cloud computing: the
first, running workloads remotely over the internet in a
commercial provider’s data center, also known as the “public
Cloud” mode; the second, a virtualized pool of resources, from
raw compute power to application functionality, available on
demand. Students will learn aspects of both while providing
effective solutions for an on-premise to a Cloud model for a
corporate infrastructure.
ITT-640: Information Systems Management
and Systems Development
4 credits
This course provides students a solid understanding of important
business functions like marketing, accounting, operations, and
statistics, in addition to the key technologies used in business.
ITT-660: IT Project Management and the
Global Economy
4 credits
This course examines the current shift towards more complex and
turbulent environments and a digitized economy and how these
challenges are a part of general practices in project, program, and
portfolio management. Students will develop the ability to show
how new opportunities can shape the economy, the business
context, and people in the organizational IT project management
context.
