Christian Counseling (CCN)
CCN-601: Biblical Foundations for
Counselors: The Story of God
3 credits
This course is a narrative approach to the theology of God,
humanity, and salvation. Students learn to apply the story of the
Bible to the life and practice of the Christian counselor.
CCN-650: Spiritual Formation: Becoming a
Healthy Practitioner
3 credits
This course provides an introduction to spiritual formation with
attention to classical spiritual disciplines and stages of growth.
This course includes an exploration into personal spiritual health
and character development with implications for counseling
practice. Prerequisite: CCN-601.
CCN-655: Biblical Concepts-Healthy
Relationships: Forgiveness &
Healthy Spirituality
3 credits
This course explores relational health in connection with topics
including self-assessment, forgiveness, reconciliation with God
and others, and the pursuit of spiritual health. Personal practice
and implementation in professional counseling are emphasized.
Prerequisite: CCN-650.
CCN-675: Integration of Scripture with
Counseling Theory
3 credits
In this course, students explore the integration of the Christian
worldview into counseling theory and practice. Emphasis is
placed on the nature and purpose of human beings from a biblical
perspective as well as ethical issues pertinent to the Christian
counselor, while critically evaluating contemporary secular
theories and practices. Prerequisite: CCN-655.
Computer Engineering (CEE)
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 268 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CEE-300: Data Structures, Algorithms, and
Numerical Recipes
4 credits
This course introduces students to data structures and algorithms.
Students will learn the computational procedures for processing
input data to obtain the desired output, including algorithm
design, testing, and troubleshooting. Students will learn how to
implement algorithms and numerical methods in a programming
language. Prerequisite: EEE-212.
CEE-312: Advanced Embedded Systems
Design & Lab
4 credits
This course combines hardware and firmware design aspects of
embedded systems. Students will learn how to design an
embedded system from the ground up, applying fundamentals of
discrete mathematics and digital logic. Hands-on activities will
focus on problem solving using scientific computation tools and
programming. This is a project-based course, in which the
students will design FPGA and microcontroller-based hardware
and develop embedded software to solve real-world problems.
Prerequisite: EEE-315.
CEE-440: Applied Research in Computer
Engineering
4 credits
This course introduces advanced topics in computer engineering,
with emphasis on current research and innovations. Utilizing
scientific research and journal publications, students will learn
about the most recent hardware and software developments in
computer engineering. Prerequisites: EEE-320 and CEE-473.
CEE-473: Computer Engineering Design
Principles I & Lab
2 credits
This course introduces students to the principles of computer
engineering design. Students will learn to produce computer
engineering designs that consider system requirements,
engineering standards, and regulatory compliance. Students will
apply engineering sciences, economics, and standards to design
digital devices, circuits, and systems to solve real-world
problems. Hands-on activities focus on the design and integration
of different subsystems. Prerequisite: CEE-312. Co-Requisite:
ESG-451.
CEE-474: Computer Engineering Design
Principles II & Lab
2 credits
This project-based course will consolidate the student’s
knowledge of the computer engineering design process, from
concept to manufacturing. It provides depth to the design process
that enables students to contribute to the solution of real-world
engineering problems. Prerequisite: CEE-473.
Christian Leadership (CHL)
CHL-510: Biblical Foundations of Christian
Leadership
4 credits
This course provides students with a biblical foundation from the
Old and New Testaments on Christian Leadership. In studying
the Scriptures in their historical, cultural, and linguistic contexts,
students gain an appreciation of principles of leadership and
develop a theology of leadership centered on the narrative and
teaching of Scripture. Issues of call, formation, character,
purpose, service, and discipleship are addressed. This course
requires supervised ministry hours. Practicum/field experience
hours: 45.
CHL-630: Best Practices in Christian
Leadership
4 credits
This course provides students with the opportunity to engage
significant insights of contemporary leadership practice in order
to integrate these insights into an effective and informed and
integrated philosophy of Christian leadership. In this course, the
student investigates some of the most helpful principles and
people regarding the practice and the concept of leadership and
organizational leadership. This course requires supervised
ministry hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 45.
Prerequisite: CHL-510.
CHL-650: Leading Through Crisis, Conflict
and Change
4 credits
This course is an investigation into the dynamics of crisis,
conflict, and change, and how to address these realities in
Christian leadership. This course requires supervised ministry
hours. Practicum/field experience hours: 45. Prerequisite: CHL520 or CHL-630.
Chemistry (CHM)
CHM-101: Introduction to General, Organic,
and Biochemistry
3 credits
An introduction to the principles of chemistry; designed for
students without a strong background in science. Topics covered
include a survey of the chemical and physical properties of
elements and compounds, chemical reactions, chemical
energetics, acids and bases, and chemical bonding. An
introduction to organic and biochemistry emphasizes the
relationship between molecular structure and function. Corequisite: CHM-101L.
CHM-101L: Introduction to General, Organic,
and Biochemistry Lab
1 credits
This lab course is designed to compliment and support the
principles being addressed in CHM-101. Students learn basic lab
techniques related to general and organic chemistry, building
upon and strengthening foundational knowledge such as
stoichiometry and reaction types. Additionally, some topics are
addressed from a biochemical standpoint to highlight application
to daily living. Co-requisite: CHM-101.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 269 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CHM-110: General and Organic Chemistry 3 credits
This course provides an introduction to the principles of
chemistry, including chemical and physical properties of
elements and compounds and chemical reactions. As an
introduction to organic chemistry, this course also emphasizes
molecular structure as it relates to function. Co-Requisite: CHM110L.
CHM-110L: General and Organic Chemistry
Lab
1 credits
The laboratory section of General and Organic Chemistry
reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the
lecture course. Co-Requisite: CHM-110.
CHM-111: General and Organic Chemistry II 3 credits
An introduction to the principles of chemistry, including
chemical and physical properties of elements and compounds and
chemical reactions. As an introduction to organic chemistry, this
course also emphasizes molecular structure. Prerequisite: CHM110. Co-Requisite: CHM-111L.
CHM-111L: General and Organic Chemistry II
Lab
1 credits
The laboratory section of General and Organic Chemistry
reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the
lecture course. Prerequisite: CHM-110L. Co-Requisite: CHM111.
CHM-113: General Chemistry I-Lecture 3 credits
This is the first course of a two-semester introduction to
chemistry intended for undergraduates pursuing careers in the
health professions and others desiring a firm foundation in
chemistry. The course assumes no prior knowledge of chemistry
and begins with basic concepts. Topics include an introduction to
the scientific method, dimensional analysis, atomic structure,
nomenclature, stoichiometry and chemical reactions, the gas
laws, thermodynamics, chemical bonding, and properties of
solutions. Co-Requisite: CHM-113L.
CHM-113L: General Chemistry I - Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of CHM-113 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course.
Experiments include determination of density, classification of
chemical reactions, the gas laws, determination of enthalpy
change using calorimetry, and determination of empirical
formula. Co-Requisite: CHM-113.
CHM-115: General Chemistry II-Lecture 3 credits
This is the second course of a two-semester introduction to
chemistry intended for undergraduates pursuing careers in the
health professions and others desiring a firm foundation in
chemistry. Upon successful completion of this course, students
demonstrate knowledge and/or skill in solving problems
involving the principles of chemical kinetics, chemical
equilibrium, and thermodynamics; understanding chemical
reactions using kinetics, equilibrium, and thermodynamics;
comparing and contrasting the principal theories of acids and
bases; solving equilibrium involving acids, bases, and buffers;
describing solubility equilibrium; describing terms associated
with electrochemistry and solving problems associated with
electrochemistry; and describing fundamentals and applications
of nuclear chemistry and organic chemistry. Prerequisites: CHM113 and MAT-154 or higher. Co-Requisite: CHM-115L.
CHM-115L: General Chemistry II - Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of CHM-115 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course.
Experiments include determination of rate law, examples of Le
Châtelier’s principle, the use of pH indicators, buffer preparation,
experimental determination of thermodynamic quantities, the use
of electrochemical cells, and qualitative and quantitative analysis.
Prerequisites: CHM-113L and MAT-154 or higher. Co-Requisite:
CHM-115.
CHM-231: Organic Chemistry I 3 credits
This course is the first of two organic chemistry courses. The first
half of this course develops the vocabulary and concepts of
chemical bonding, chemical structure, acid-base principles, and
nomenclature needed to understand properties and reactions of
organic compounds. The second half of this course discusses
chemical reactions, including radical reactions, substitution and
elimination reactions, and synthesis and reactions of alkenes.
Students learn how to predict reaction products and draw reaction
mechanisms. Organic synthesis and structural determination are
also covered. Instruction includes lecture and in-class problem
solving. Prerequisites: CHM-115 and CHM-115L. Co-requisite:
CHM-231L.
CHM-231L: Organic Chemistry I Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of CHM-231 reinforces principles learned
in the lecture course through various techniques that organic
chemists use to synthesize compounds. Students use these
techniques throughout the semester. These techniques include
determination of melting point, determination of solubility, thin
layer chromatography, recrystallization, and distillation.
Structural determination using theories discussed in CHM-231 is
applied to unknown compounds. Prerequisites: CHM-115 and
CHM-115L. Co-requisite: CHM-231.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 270 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CHM-232: Organic Chemistry II 3 credits
This course is the second of two organic chemistry courses. The
course is organized by common organic functional groups,
including alkynes, alcohols, ether, aromatic compounds, ketones
and aldehydes, amines, carboxylic acid, and carboxylic acid
derivatives. The reactions and properties of each functional group
are discussed. Students learn how to predict reaction products,
draw reaction mechanisms, and predict physical properties.
Instruction includes lecture and in-class problem solving.
Prerequisites: CHM-231 and CHM-231L. Co-Requisite: CHM232L.
CHM-232L: Organic Chemistry II Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of CHM-232 supports and extends
principles learned in the lecture course. Students carry out
various organic syntheses using techniques taught in CHM-231.
The experiments include preparation of an alkene from an
alcohol, a Grignard reaction, preparation of cinnamaldehyde,
nitration of methyl benzoate, synthesis of N-Methyl Prozac, an
Aldol reaction, Benzimidazole synthesis, and a Diazonium
coupling reaction. Prerequisites: CHM-231 and CHM-231L. Corequisite: CHM-232.
CHM-235: Survey of Organic Chemistry 3 credits
This course is a survey of basic structure and reactivity of
carbon-containing structures with examples in biological and
industrial processes. Students will learn how to name organic
compounds, draw and understand their structures in two and three
dimensions, and learn how structure and reactivity are
interrelated. Students will be able to describe reactivity in terms
of addition, elimination, and substitution. Biological compounds
discussed in the course include the structure and reactivity of
carbohydrates and polysaccharides followed by amino acids and
proteins. The final topic for the course is a discussion about
industrially important polymers. Prerequisites: CHM-115 and
CHM-115L. Co-Requisite: CHM-235L.
CHM-235L: Survey of Organic Chemistry Lab 1 credits
This is the lab section of CHM-235. It supports the lecture with
hands-on activities. Lab experiments expand students’
understanding of organic compounds, drawing and understanding
their structures in two and three dimensions, and learning how
structure and reactivity are interrelated. Students will be able to
describe reactivity in terms of addition, elimination, and
substitution. Biological compounds discussed in the course
include the structure and reactivity of carbohydrates and
polysaccharides followed by amino acids and proteins. The final
topic for the course is a discussion about industrially important
polymers. Prerequisites: CHM-115 and CHM-115L. CoRequisite: CHM-235.
CHM-315҂: Analytical Chemistry 3 credits
This course introduces advanced principles and theory of
quantitative analysis, including stoichiometry, equilibria,
photometric methods, electrochemistry, separation processes,
statistical data analysis, and applications to advanced topics in
analytical chemistry. Sampling strategies and sample preparation
for analysis will also be discussed. Prerequisite: CHM-235,
CHM-235L or CHM-231, CHM-231L. Co-Requisite: CHM315L.
CHM315HN҂:
Analytical Chemistry 3 credits
This course introduces advanced principles and theory of
quantitative analysis, including stoichiometry, equilibria,
photometric methods, electrochemistry, separation processes,
statistical data analysis, and applications to advanced topics in
analytical chemistry. Sampling strategies and sample preparation
for analysis will also be discussed. Prerequisite: CHM-235,
CHM-235L or CHM-231, CHM-231L. Co-Requisite: CHM315L.
CHM-315L҂: Analytical Chemistry Lab 1 credits
This course will discuss the fundamental principles of analytical
chemistry. Topics will include sampling strategies, sample
preparations and analysis, instrument operation, data collection
and statistical analysis, and presentation of results. Prerequisites:
CHM-235 and CHM-235L or CHM-231 and CHM-231L. CoRequisite: CHM-315.
CHM315LHN҂:
Analytical Chemistry Lab 1 credits
This course will discuss the fundamental principles of analytical
chemistry. Topics will include sampling strategies, sample
preparations and analysis, instrument operation, data collection
and statistical analysis, and presentation of results. Prerequisites:
CHM-235 and CHM-235L or CHM-231 and CHM-231L. CoRequisite: CHM-315.
CHM-333: Structure Determination in
Organic Chemistry
4 credits
This course discusses the theory and application of spectroscopic
methods/techniques useful for the determination of the molecular
structures of organic molecules. Topics covered include
chemical tests for functional group identification and modern
instrumental techniques used for structure determination:
ultraviolet/visible, infrared, and nuclear magnetic resonance
spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. The major emphasis of this
course is on structure determination by way of interpreting the
data (generally in the form of a spectrum or spectra) that each
method provides. Prerequisite: CHM-232 & CHM-232L.
CHM-350҂
: Fundamental Biochemistry 3 credits
This course provides an introduction to the properties, structure,
function, thermodynamics, and basic genetics of
macromolecules, including proteins, enzymes, nucleic acids,
carbohydrates, and lipids. The course also covers how living
systems synthesize and utilize these macromolecules and how
that relates to energy production and use. Prerequisites: CHM111 and CHM-111L. Co-Requisite: CHM-350L.
CHM-350HN҂
:Fundamental Biochemistry 3 credits
This course provides an introduction to the properties, structure,
function, thermodynamics, and basic genetics of
macromolecules, including proteins, enzymes, nucleic acids,
carbohydrates, and lipids. The course also covers how living
systems synthesize and utilize these macromolecules and how
that relates to energy production and use. Prerequisites: CHM111 and CHM-111L. Co-Requisite: CHM-350L.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 271 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CHM-350L҂
: Fundamental Biochemistry Lab 1 credits
This laboratory course introduces techniques for analyzing
macromolecules including carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and
nucleic acids. It also explores basic biochemical pathways
utilized by living systems that enable cellular function.
Prerequisites: CHM-111 and CHM-111L. Co-Requisite: CHM350.
CHM350LHN҂
:
Fundamental Biochemistry Lab 1 credits
This laboratory course introduces techniques for analyzing
macromolecules including carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and
nucleic acids. It also explores basic biochemical pathways
utilized by living systems that enable cellular function.
Prerequisites: CHM-111 and CHM-111L. Co-Requisite: CHM350.
CHM-360҂: Principles of Biochemistry 3 credits
The course objective is to survey basic biochemical principles,
including the composition, structure, and function of proteins,
nucleic acids, lipids, and carbohydrates. Important biochemical
principles include structure-function correlation, chemical
reactivity, kinetics and equilibrium, thermodynamics, membrane
structure and function, and metabolic energy pathways. The
application of biochemical concepts in the medical field is
emphasized. Prerequisite: BIO-181, BIO-181L, CHM-231,
CHM-231L. Co-Requisite: CHM-360L.
CHM360HN҂:
Principles of Biochemistry 3 credits
The course objective is to survey basic biochemical principles,
including the composition, structure, and function of proteins,
nucleic acids, lipids, and carbohydrates. Important biochemical
principles include structure-function correlation, chemical
reactivity, kinetics and equilibrium, thermodynamics, membrane
structure and function, and metabolic energy pathways. The
application of biochemical concepts in the medical field is
emphasized. Prerequisite: BIO-181, BIO-181L, CHM-231,
CHM-231L. Co-Requisite: CHM-360L.
CHM-360L҂: Principles of Biochemistry - Lab 1 credits
This laboratory course covers modern biochemical laboratory
techniques and their theoretical foundations. Topics include
methods for protein, nucleic acid, and lipid isolation and
characterization; enzyme assays; chromatography;
electrophoresis; and representing and manipulating proteins and
nucleic acids. Experiments are designed for hands-on
experimentation and students acquire practical techniques
currently used in biochemistry laboratories. Prerequisite: BIO181, BIO-181L, CHM-231, CHM-231L. Co-Requisite: CHM360.
CHM360LHN҂:
Principles of Biochemistry - Lab 1 credits
This laboratory course covers modern biochemical laboratory
techniques and their theoretical foundations. Topics include
methods for protein, nucleic acid, and lipid isolation and
characterization; enzyme assays; chromatography;
electrophoresis; and representing and manipulating proteins and
nucleic acids. Experiments are designed for hands-on
experimentation and students acquire practical techniques
currently used in biochemistry laboratories. Prerequisites: BIO181 and BIO-181L, and one of the following combinations: 1)
CHM-331 and CHM-331L or 2) CHM-231 and CHM-231L. Corequisite: CHM-360.
CHM-365҂: Instrumental Analysis 3 credits
This course introduces students to the quantitative, qualitative,
and instrumental analysis of various sample types. Methods for
selecting proper techniques to answer various questions are
discussed. Analytical methods for the qualitative and quantitative
analyses of sample by gas chromatography, mass spectroscopy,
infrared spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy, capillary and
gel electrophoresis, and ultraviolet and visible spectroscopy are
also covered. Other techniques, such as high-pressure liquid
chromatography and thin layer chromatography, are discussed as
well. Prerequisites: 1) CHM-231 and CHM-231L, or 2) CHM235 and CHM-235L. Co-Requisite: CHM-365L.
CHM365HN҂:
Instrumental Analysis 3 credits
This course introduces students to the quantitative, qualitative,
and instrumental analysis of various sample types. Methods for
selecting proper techniques to answer various questions are
discussed. Analytical methods for the qualitative and quantitative
analyses of sample by gas chromatography, mass spectroscopy,
infrared spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy, capillary and
gel electrophoresis, and ultraviolet and visible spectroscopy are
also covered. Other techniques, such as high-pressure liquid
chromatography and thin layer chromatography, are discussed as
well. Prerequisites: 1) CHM-231 and CHM-231L, or 2) CHM235 and CHM-235L. Co-Requisite: CHM-365L.
CHM-365L҂: Instrumental Analysis Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of CHM-365 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course. This
course allows students to apply quantitative, qualitative, and
instrumental analysis of various sample types. Focus is on the
validity of results. Analytical methods for the qualitative and
quantitative analyses of sample by gas chromatography, mass
spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy,
capillary and gel are also covered. Prerequisites: 1) CHM-231
and CHM-231L, or 2) CHM-235 and CHM-235L. Co-Requisite:
CHM-365.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 272 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CHM365LHN҂:
Instrumental Analysis Lab 1 credits
The laboratory section of CHM-365 reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture course. This
course allows students to apply quantitative, qualitative, and
instrumental analysis of various sample types. Focus is on the
validity of results. Analytical methods for the qualitative and
quantitative analyses of sample by gas chromatography, mass
spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy,
capillary and gel are also covered. Prerequisites: 1) CHM-231
and CHM-231L, or 2) CHM-235 and CHM-235L. Co-Requisite:
CHM-365.
CHM-420∆: Environmental Chemistry 3 credits
This writing intensive course focuses on the fundamental
chemical principles involved in environmental phenomena and
how they are influenced by human actions. Prerequisite: CHM115.
CHM-440: Toxicology & Instrumental
Analysis
4 credits
This course introduces students to the quantitative, qualitative,
and instrumental analysis of various biological and nonbiological sample types. Analytical methods for the qualitative
and quantitative analyses of samples by various chromatography
and spectroscopy techniques are detailed. The toxicological
section of this course is designed to equip learners with general
principles of toxicology, forensic toxicology, and drug
metabolism. Topics include chemistry and biological activities,
as well as types and effects of drugs of forensic interest in
biological material. Prerequisites: CHM-231 and CHM-231L.
CHM-441: Physical Chemistry I 3 credits
A study of the physical and chemical behavior of substances at
the macroscopic and molecular levels. Topics include behavior of
single substances and mixtures, thermodynamics, chemical
reactions, and equilibria. Prerequisites: CHM-115, CHM-115L,
and MAT-262. Co-Requisite: CHM-441L.
CHM-441L: Physical Chemistry I Lab 1 credits
A laboratory course designed to complement and support the
principles being learned in CHM-441 lecture. Prerequisites:
CHM-115, CHM-115L, and MAT-262. Co-Requisite: CHM-441.
CHM-444: Physical Chemistry II 3 credits
This course is a study of the physical and chemical behavior of
substances at the molecular level. Topics include quantum
chemistry, molecular structure and spectra, molecular reaction
dynamics, and statistical mechanics. Prerequisites: CHM-441,
PHY-121 and PHY-121L. Co-Requisite: CHM-444L.
CHM-444L: Physical Chemistry II Lab 1 credits
This is a laboratory course designed to complement and support
the principles being learned in CHM-444. Prerequisites: CHM441, PHY-121 and PHY-121L. Co-Requisite: CHM-444.
CHM-448: Inorganic Chemistry 3 credits
The objective of this course is to provide basic principles and
applications of inorganic chemistry. Students will learn about
modern atomic structure, structure and bonding in molecules and
simple solids, transition metals and coordination chemistry,
molecular symmetry, descriptive chemistry of select elements,
chemistry of materials, and catalysis. Prerequisites: CHM-444
and CHM-444L. Co-Requisite: CHM-448L.
CHM-448L: Inorganic Chemistry Lab 1 credits
The objective of this course is to learn about a variety of methods
and techniques in the synthesis, isolation, characterization, and
handling of inorganic and organometallic compounds. Students
will also learn about proper interpretation of experimental data,
and dissemination of experimental results through presentation
and writing technical reports. Prerequisites: CHM-444 and CHM444L. Co-Requisite: CHM-448.
CHM-451҂: Pharmacology I 4 credits
This course presents the foundational concepts of pharmacology
emphasizing basic mechanisms of drug action.
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics principles and theories
are presented. The course details the development of the current
understanding of receptor signal transduction in mammalian
systems. The course introduces the molecular biochemistry of
receptor structure; mass action considerations governing ligandreceptor binding interactions; molecular pharmacology associated
with signal transduction; and specific considerations of receptors
as pharmaceutical targets. Following this introduction, a
systematic study of the effects of drugs on representative organ
systems and disease processes, the mechanisms by which drugs
produce their therapeutic and toxic effects, and the factors
influencing their absorption, distribution, and biological actions.
Prerequisites: CHM-232 and CHM-232L, CHM-360, and CHM360L. BIO-205 and BIO-205L, or BIO-215 and BIO-215L.
CHM451HN҂:
Pharmacology I 4 credits
This course presents the foundational concepts of pharmacology
emphasizing basic mechanisms of drug action.
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics principles and theories
are presented. The course details the development of the current
understanding of receptor signal transduction in mammalian
systems. The course introduces the molecular biochemistry of
receptor structure; mass action considerations governing ligandreceptor binding interactions; molecular pharmacology associated
with signal transduction; and specific considerations of receptors
as pharmaceutical targets. Following this introduction, a
systematic study of the effects of drugs on representative organ
systems and disease processes, the mechanisms by which drugs
produce their therapeutic and toxic effects, and the factors
influencing their absorption, distribution, and biological actions.
Prerequisites: CHM-232 and CHM-232L, CHM-360, and CHM360L. BIO-205 and BIO-205L, or BIO-215 and BIO-215L .
CHM-452: Pharmacology II 4 credits
This course is a continuation of Pharmacology I. Concepts and
principles learned in the previous course are applied to additional
organ systems and disease processes. Topics include
cardiovascular drugs, chemotherapeutic drugs, endocrine drugs,
and drugs of abuse. Prerequisite: CHM-451.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 273 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CHM-460҂: Advanced Biochemistry 3 credits
This course presents advanced topics in biochemistry, including
mechanisms of metabolic and environmental information
transfer, cellular signal transduction mechanisms, metabolic
pathway interrelationships and regulation, carbohydrate, lipid and
nitrogen metabolism, and the cell cycle and regulation.
Prerequisites: CHM-360 and CHM-360L. Co-Requisite: CHM460L.
CHM460HN҂:
Advanced Biochemistry 3 credits
This course presents advanced topics in biochemistry, including
mechanisms of metabolic and environmental information
transfer, cellular signal transduction mechanisms, metabolic
pathway interrelationships and regulation, carbohydrate, lipid and
nitrogen metabolism, and the cell cycle and regulation.
Prerequisites: CHM-360 and CHM-360L. Co-Requisite: CHM460L.
CHM-460L҂: Advanced Biochemistry Lab 1 credits
This hands-on laboratory course is designed to provide a projectbased experience utilizing modern biochemical techniques. This
course will reinforce proper experimental design and control and
will provide students with experience with several biochemical
techniques, including DNA, RNA, and protein extraction from
tissue and its analysis. This course will reinforce troubleshooting,
confounds to analysis, and application of various techniques to
reach a target goal. Co-requisite: CHM-460.
CHM460LHN҂:
Advanced Biochemistry Lab 1 credits
This hands-on laboratory course is designed to provide a projectbased experience utilizing modern biochemical techniques. This
course will reinforce proper experimental design and control and
will provide students with experience with several biochemical
techniques, including DNA, RNA, and protein extraction from
tissue and its analysis. This course will reinforce troubleshooting,
confounds to analysis, and application of various techniques to
reach a target goal. Co-requisite: CHM-460.
CHM-470: Biochemical Applications & Lab 4 credits
This hands-on, experience-based course provides an
interdisciplinary investigation of molecular, biochemical, and
organic chemistry applications and techniques. This course
prepares students in the design, performance, and analysis of a
research-based project. Prerequisite: CHM-360, CHM-360L.
CHM-505: Concepts of Medicinal Chemistry 4 credits
This focus of the course is the fundamentals of medicinal
chemistry. Medicinal chemistry is an organic-chemistry-based
discipline that interfaces strongly with the biological and
pharmaceutical sciences. The field of medicinal chemistry
includes the discovery and preparation of biologically active
compounds; the study of their metabolism; the mechanism of
action at the molecular level; and the construction of structureactivity relationships. This course includes the process of drug
design, the structure and function of macromolecular drug
“targets” (receptors, enzymes, nucleic acids), as well as the
mechanisms by which drugs interact with their targets. Also, the
complexity of human physiology and its effects which on the
physical and chemical properties of a drug candidate can
influence its absorption, distribution, and metabolism in a human
patients will be discussed. Prerequisites: Students should have
completed a year of organic chemistry and a course in
biochemistry.
CHM-510: Concepts of Physical Chemistry 4 credits
The objective of this course is to provide a foundational
knowledge on basic principles and applications of physical
chemistry. The following topics will be covered: chemical
kinetics, chemical equilibrium, and thermodynamics. Additional
topics will include applications of physical chemistry principles
towards chemical and biological systems including enzymatic
reactions; time-dependent chemical and nuclear reactions;
electrochemistry; and equilibria related to acids, bases, buffers,
and solubility. Prerequisite: Students should have completed a
year of general chemistry.
CHM-515: Concepts of Inorganic Chemistry 4 credits
The objective of this course is to provide a foundational
knowledge on basic principles and applications of inorganic
chemistry. The following topics will be covered: modern atomic
structure, nomenclature of inorganic compounds, bonding theory,
magnetism, periodic trends, and chemical reactivity. Additional
topics include fundamentals of organometallic chemistry and
transitional element chemistry and their application towards
material properties, catalysis, and bioinorganic chemistry.
Prerequisite: Students should have completed a year of general
chemistry.
CHM-520: Concepts of Analytical Chemistry 4 credits
The objective of this course is to provide basic and advanced
theories, techniques, and principles of qualitative and quantitative
analysis. Additional topics may include application of concepts
of analytical chemistry to the fields of environmental science,
forensic science, and medicine. Students should have a prior
understanding of basic quantitative statistics. Prerequisite: CHM505, CHM-510, CHM-515.
CHM-525: Current Topics in Chemistry 4 credits
This course surveys the broad areas of contemporary chemistry
research and illustrates the application of chemistry principles.
The topics will be determined by current events, technology,
faculty and student interest.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 274 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CHM-530: Concepts of Biochemistry 4 credits
The objective of this course is to survey basic biochemical
principles, including the composition, structure, and function of
proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, and carbohydrates. Important
biochemical principles, including structure-function correlation,
kinetics and equilibrium, thermodynamics, membrane structure
and function, and metabolic energy pathways, will illustrate the
key concepts of biology and chemistry.
Counseling (CNL)
CNL-500Ω: Theories and Models of Counseling 3 credits
This course provides a comprehensive survey of the major
counseling theories and principles. Coursework includes the
following theories: psychoanalytic, Adlerian, existential
psychotherapy, behavioral, cognitive behavioral, person-centered,
reality therapy/choice theory, and rational emotive behavioral
therapy (REBT).
CNL-501: Substance Use Disorders and
Addictions
3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of the stages,
processes, and effects of substance use disorders, biological,
social, and psychological dynamics of substance use disorders,
and the professional's role in prevention, intervention, and
aftercare, including recovery and relapse prevention. This course
explores theories and models of treatment of addiction disorders
to include understanding different types of addiction disorders,
effective skills, drug classification, and assessment. It also
continues building foundational knowledge, utilization of
professional resources, and exploration of standards to help
students prepare for licensure/certification within the counseling
industry.
CNL-505Ω: Professional Counseling, Ethical,
and Legal Considerations
3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of counseling ethics,
legal standards, and responsibilities, including professional
identity, report writing, record keeping, and service
reimbursement for clinical mental health and school counselors.
Additionally, the history of and current trends in counseling are
addressed. Important goals of this course are to help students
develop a strong personal and professional ethic, as well as an
appreciation of the value of professional collaboration and
identity.
CNL-509Ω: Counseling the Culturally Diverse 3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of issues and trends
in a multicultural and diverse society. Studies in this area include
the following: attitudes and behaviors based on such factors as
age, race, religious preference, physical disability, sexual
orientation, ethnicity and culture, family patterns, gender,
socioeconomic status and intellectual ability; individual, family,
group, and community strategies for working with diverse
populations; theories of multicultural counseling and identity
development; multicultural competencies; and issues such as
substance use disorders. Students examine a variety of cultural
populations in multiple regions of the United States, exploring
issues and trends that are associated with each population.
Cultural considerations for immigrants, refugees, and
undocumented citizens are also addressed.
CNL-515Ω: Counseling Skills 3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of counseling
processes, including characteristics and behaviors that influence
the helping processes. Included are age, gender, ethnic
differences, verbal and nonverbal behaviors, personal
characteristics, and orientations. The development of counseling
techniques is emphasized, including establishing and maintaining
the counseling relationship; diagnosing and identifying the
problem; formulating a preventative, treatment, or rehabilitative
plan; facilitating appropriate interventions; and successfully
terminating the counseling relationship.
CNL-518Ω: Lifespan and Development 3 credits
This course provides an understanding of the nature, needs, and
differing abilities of individuals at all developmental levels.
Theories of individual and family development, transitions across
the life span, theories of learning, theories of personality
development, and ethical and cultural strategies for facilitating
optimum development over the life span are addressed.
CNL-520Ω: Group Counseling 3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of group
development, group dynamics, group counseling theories, and
ethical standards with reference to professional and substance use
disorders counseling. The course addresses group process
components, appropriate selection criteria, developmental stage
theories, group members’ roles and behaviors; and group
leadership styles and approaches. The course includes didactic
and experiential group learning. Required synchronous group
experience: 12 hours. Prerequisite: CNL-515.
CNL-521: Counseling Couples and Families 3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of the structure and
dynamics of couples and families, which includes theory,
assessment, and application of couples and family intervention
and counseling.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 275 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CNL-523: Assessment, Tests, and
Measurements
3 credits
This course provides an introduction to basic tests and appraisal
in counseling. Individual and group approaches to testing,
assessment, evaluation, behavioral observations, computermanaged and computer-assisted methods are addressed. The
following statistical concepts are also addressed: scales of
measurement, measures of central tendency, indices of
variability, shapes and types of distributions, correlations,
reliability, and validity.
CNL-525: Career Counseling 3 credits
This course provides a broad understanding of career
development and related life factors including psychotherapy,
career counseling techniques and processes, career development
theories, decision-making models, issues of diversity, and
interrelationships between work and family.
CNL-527: Principles of Psychopharmacology 3 credits
This course introduces students to the basic principles of
psychopharmacology and the effects of psychoactive substances.
Students examine the behavioral, psychological, physiological
and social effects of psychoactive substance use, and learn to
recognize symptoms of intoxication, withdrawal, and toxicity.
The class covers various screening options, limitations, legal
implications, and the utilization of pharmacotherapy as part of
substance addiction treatment.
CNL-530: Human Sexuality and Issues of
Aging
3 credits
This course is divided into two distinct and separate sections. The
first part of the course examines human sexuality and systems of
sexual therapy. Psychological, biological, social, and moral
perspectives on sexual development and functioning are also
examined. The last part of the course provides an understanding
of the nature of aging and older adults. Theories and strategies for
facilitating optimum care of older adults are addressed. Elder
abuse, dependent adult abuse, and neglect of the aging and older
adults are explored. Sexuality, mental health, physical health, the
role of substance use disorders, and family issues are also
addressed.
CNL-540Ω: Research Methods and Program
Evaluation
3 credits
This course introduces research methods and basic statistical
analysis, including the following: the importance of research,
opportunities for research, and difficulties in conducting research.
Research methods such as qualitative, quantitative, single-case
designs, action research, and outcome-based research are
addressed.
CNL-542: Consulting in Counseling 3 credits
This course provides an overview of the consulting process and
dynamics as they relate to the counseling field. The course covers
theoretical approaches, models, strategies, and the use of
psychoeducation in the consultation process in various settings
including counseling. The course also reviews the various roles
and functions of a counselor in multiple settings, including
human services, education, multidisciplinary, and integrated
behavioral health care system.
CNL-545: Abuse, Crisis, and Trauma
Counseling
3 credits
This eight-topic course is divided into three distinct and separate
sections. The first three topics examine crisis intervention and
trauma counseling; Theories and strategies of trauma counseling
and facilitating crisis interventions are also addressed. The
second three topics examine spousal or partner abuse assessment,
detection, and intervention strategies. The legal and ethical
issues, the role of substance use disorders, and children in
families where domestic violence and abuse occur are also
addressed. The last two topics examine child abuse assessment
and reporting. Legal and ethical issues and specific California
child abuse assessment and reporting codes are also examined.
CNL-600: GCU NCE Readiness Course 0 credits
This course is designed for learners to prepare to take the
National Counseling Exam (NCE). The instructor-led, virtual,
accelerated course includes a review of the eight content areas of
the NCE, knowledge of test structure, exposure to sample test
questions, and an opportunity for learners to create an
individualized action plan.
CNL-605: Psychopathology 3 credits
This course introduces the study of mental illnesses and the
science of psychopathology. The goal is to provide counseling
students a conceptual understanding of psychological and
behavioral dysfunction that occurs in mental illnesses. The course
includes a survey of major psychiatric disorders and their causes.
CNL-610: Clinical Assessment, Diagnosis, and
Treatment
3 credits
This course provides a conceptual framework for the use of
assessment and diagnostic tools for the development of
appropriate treatment interventions for a variety of behavioral
health and substance use disorders. Included is an introduction to
the use of the diagnostic tools, including the DSM, and the
integration of diagnostic and assessment information, in the
development of treatment plans.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 276 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CNL-624: Counseling Practicum 2 credits
The practicum course is a distinctly defined, supervised clinical
fieldwork experience in which the student develops basic
counseling skills and integrates professional knowledge under the
supervision of a faculty member or an on-site clinical site
supervisor approved by the college or university with a minimum
of 1 hour per week of individualized and/or triadic supervision
throughout the practicum. Practicum students participate in an
average of 1 ½ hours per week of group supervision via Zoom
with a counseling faculty member or student supervisor who is
under the supervision of a counselor education program faculty
member on a regular schedule throughout the practicum.
Documentation of a minimum requirement of 100 hours of
counseling-related activities, which includes 40 direct client
contact hours, is submitted directly to the college’s Office of
Field Experience for verification and tracking. The practicum is
completed prior to the internship; therefore, students may not
progress to CNL-664A without the required amount of hours
submitted, the required amount of individual and group
supervision, and proper approval. This course has multiple
synchronous required activities. Students must be prepared to be
flexible in meeting the demands of this course in order to
progress to the internship. Practicum/field experience hours: 100.
State licensure requirements may mandate additional hours.
Students must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. Prerequisites: Completion of all didactic
coursework in the program; a GPA of 3.0 or better; and
maintenance of student professional liability insurance in the
amount of $1 million, $3 million.
CNL-624A: Counseling Practicum II 2 credits
This is a continuation of the counseling practicum. The practicum
course is a distinctly defined, supervised clinical fieldwork
experience in which the student develops basic counseling skills
and integrates professional knowledge under the supervision of a
faculty member or an on-site clinical site supervisor approved by
the college or university with a minimum of 1 hour per week of
individualized and/or triadic supervision throughout the
practicum. Practicum students participate in an average of 1 ½
hours per week of group supervision via Zoom with a counseling
faculty member or student supervisor who is under the
supervision of a counselor education program faculty member on
a regular schedule throughout the practicum. Documentation of a
minimum requirement of 100 hours of counseling-related
activities, which includes 40 direct client contact hours, is
submitted directly to the college’s Office of Field Experience for
verification and tracking.. The practicum is completed prior to
the internship; therefore, students may not progress to CNL-664A
without the required amount of hours submitted, the required
amount of individual and group supervision, and proper approval.
This course has multiple synchronous required activities.
Students must be prepared to be flexible in meeting the demands
of this course in order to progress to the internship.
Practicum/field experience hours: 100. Students must complete
the minimum amount of hours required. State licensure
requirements may mandate additional hours. Students must
review and adhere to their state board's additional requirements.
Prerequisites: CNL-624; a GPA of 3.0 or better; maintenance of
student professional liability insurance in the amount of $1
million, $3 million; and college approval.
CNL-644: Assessment of Mental and
Emotional Health Status
2 credits
Students in this course are introduced to a variety of testing
instruments used to determine a client's emotional or mental
status. Assessment procedures are explored within the context of
diagnosis and treatment planning. This course focuses on the
administration and interpretation of individual and group
standardized tests of mental ability, personality, and
measurement.
CNL-645: Telehealth/Telemedicine in the
Helping Professions
2 credits
This course provides the foundation for utilizing
telehealth/telemedicine in the helping professions, including
technology evaluation, best practices, state and federal
regulations, and ethics. In addition, the benefits and limitations of
telehealth/telemedicine are discussed.
CNL-664A: Counseling Internship I 4 credits
The internship course is a distinctly defined, supervised clinical
experience in which the student refines and enhances basic
counseling and student development of knowledge and skills, and
integrates and authenticates professional knowledge and skills
related to program objectives. The internship is performed under
the supervision of an on-site clinical site supervisor approved by
the college or university with an average of 1 hour per week of
individualized and/or triadic supervision throughout the
internship. Internship students participate in a minimum of 1 ½
hours per week of group supervision via Zoom with a counseling
faculty member or student supervisor who is under the
supervision of a counselor education program faculty member on
a regular schedule throughout the internship. Documentation of
300 hours of counseling-related activities, which includes a
required minimum of 120 direct client contact hours, is submitted
directly to the college’s Office of Field Experience for
verification and tracking. Internship hours: A minimum of 300
total hours of which 120 is total direct hours. Students must
successfully complete CNL-624 before progressing to the
internship. This course has multiple synchronous required
activities. Students must be prepared to be flexible in meeting the
demands of this course in order to meet the internship
requirements. Practicum/field experience hours: 300. State
licensure requirements may mandate additional hours. Students
must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. Prerequisites: CNL-624; a GPA of 3.0 or better;
maintenance of student professional liability insurance in the
amount of $1 million, $3 million; and college approval.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 277 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CNL-664B: Counseling Internship II 4 credits
The internship course is a distinctly defined, supervised clinical
experience in which the student refines and enhances basic
counseling and student development of knowledge and skills, and
integrates and authenticates professional knowledge and skills
related to program objectives. The internship is performed under
the supervision of an on-site clinical site supervisor approved by
the college or university with an average of 1 hour per week of
individualized and/or triadic supervision throughout the
internship. Internship students participate in a minimum of 1 ½
hours per week of group supervision via Zoom with a counseling
faculty member or student supervisor who is under the
supervision of a counselor education program faculty member on
a regular schedule throughout the internship. Documentation of
300 hours of counseling-related activities, which includes a
required minimum of 120 direct client contact hours, is submitted
directly to the college’s Office of Field Experience for
verification and tracking. This course has multiple synchronous
required activities. Students must be prepared to be flexible in
meeting the demands of this course in order to meet the
internship requirements. Practicum/field experience hours: 300.
State licensure requirements may mandate additional hours.
Students must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. Prerequisites: CNL-624 and CNL-664A; a GPA of
3.0 or better; maintenance of student professional liability
insurance in the amount of $1 million, $3 million; and college
approval.
CNL-664C: Counseling Internship III 1 credits
This is a continuation of the counseling internship. The internship
course is a distinctly defined, supervised clinical experience in
which the student refines and enhances basic counseling and
student development of knowledge and skills, and integrates and
authenticates professional knowledge and skills related to
program objectives. The internship is performed under the
supervision of an on-site clinical site supervisor approved by the
college or university with an average of 1 hour per week of
individualized and/or triadic supervision throughout the
internship. Internship students participate in a minimum of 1 ½
hours per week of group supervision via Zoom with a counseling
faculty member or student supervisor who is under the
supervision of a counselor education program faculty member on
a regular schedule throughout the internship. Documentation of a
minimum of 300 hours of counseling-related activities, which
includes a minimum of 40 direct client contact hours, is
submitted directly to the college’s Office of Field Experience for
verification and tracking. This course has multiple synchronous
required activities. Students must be prepared to be flexible in
meeting the demands of this course in order to meet the
internship requirements. Practicum/field experience hours: 300.
State licensure requirements may mandate additional hours.
Students must review and adhere to their state board's additional
requirements. Prerequisites: CNL-664B; a GPA of 3.0 or better;
maintenance of student professional liability insurance in the
amount of $1 million, $3 million; and college approval.
Communications (COM)
COM-100: Fundamentals of Communication 4 credits
This course is an introduction to the field of communication with
emphasis on the history of communication study, relevant
communication theories guiding current research, the contexts in
which communication occurs, and issues faced by students of
communication. The course focuses on introducing students to
various communication models as well as theories and skills in
interpersonal communication, small group communication, mass
communication, intercultural communication, and public
communication.
COM-210: Public Speaking 4 credits
This basic course in oral communication uses focused content to
practice the principles of effective oral presentation. The lectures,
speaking assignments, and all written work will acquaint the
student with the theory, practice, and necessary technological
literacy required for effective message building and presentation.
COM211HN҂:
Honors Public Speaking 4 credits
This basic course in oral communication uses focused content to
practice the principles of effective oral presentation. The lectures,
speaking assignments, and all written work will acquaint the
student with the history, theory, practice, and necessary
technological literacy required for effective message building and
presentation.
COM-222: Small Group Communication 4 credits
This course examines the principles and processes of small
groups and the development of skills for participation and
leadership in small group settings, as well as practice in problem
solving, decision making, critical reasoning, and information
sharing.
COM-263∆: Elements of Intercultural
Communication
4 credits
This writing-intensive course focuses on improving
communication among people with different racial, ethnic,
cultural, and minority backgrounds. Students explore verbal and
nonverbal communication behaviors in a variety of
communication media and contexts. Communication styles,
rituals, and traditions are explored through an examination of
mass media, family structure, religion, politics, education, social
life, art, and literature.
COM-302: Writing for the Media 4 credits
This course is a study of the content, styles, and formats of media
writing, with an emphasis on the differences in writing across
diverse media modalities.
COM-312҂: Conflict and Negotiation 4 credits
This course is designed to introduce the concepts and theories
relevant to understanding conflict communication and the
negotiation process. In this course, students are introduced to
various elements of conflict and negotiation communication
across a variety of contexts including interpersonal,
organizational, and international. Upon completion of this course,
students will be able to analyze power dynamics in relationships,
identify conflict styles and tactics, and apply intervention
techniques in contexts that are relevant to their future
relationships and careers.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 278 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
COM-333: Communication Ethics 4 credits
This course introduces students to the study of ethics as it applies
in the communication field. As aspiring communication
professionals, students need to learn how to engage in
communication that is not only appropriate but also responsive to
sound ethical principles. In this course, students learn about
major ethical theories and explore how these theories are applied
in workplace communication, interpersonal relationships, mass
media, and intercultural communication contexts.
COM-355҂: Communication Research Methods 4 credits
This course provides an overview of the concepts, methods, and
tools for communication research design, implementation,
interpretation, and critical evaluation in communication research.
Prerequisite: COM-100.
COM355HN҂:
Communication Research Methods 4 credits
This course provides an overview of the concepts, methods, and
tools for communication research design, implementation,
interpretation, and critical evaluation in communication research.
Prerequisites: ENG-106, COM-100, and MAT-144.
COM-362҂: Argumentation and Advocacy 4 credits
This course introduces students to the relationship between
argumentation and advocacy as well as the role of worldviews in
shaping the arguments surrounding relevant social issues. This
course presents the concepts and skills related to the study of
argumentation. Students are introduced to the principles and
elements of argumentation in everyday communication across
contexts, as well as the skills necessary in constructing and
evaluating written and oral arguments.
COM362HN҂:
Argumentation and Advocacy 4 credits
This course introduces students to the relationship between
argumentation and advocacy as well as the role of worldviews in
shaping the arguments surrounding relevant social issues. This
course presents the concepts and skills related to the study of
argumentation. Students are introduced to the principles and
elements of argumentation in everyday communication across
contexts, as well as the skills necessary in constructing and
evaluating written and oral arguments.
COM-370: Principles of Public Relations 4 credits
This course investigates the principles and theories of public
relations. Students receive an overview of the function and
practices of the growing public relations industry in both profit
and nonprofit contexts. This course examines the relationships
between the public relations practitioner and various groups
including clients, consumers, employees, and media.
COM-451∆҂: Relational Communication 4 credits
This writing-intensive course focuses on the communication
processes in personal relationships such as romantic
relationships, family relationships, and friendships. Through
quantitative and qualitative methods and other theoretical
perspectives, students in this class examine the expression and
interpretation of messages in everyday personal interactions as
well as significant relational events. Students also explore
communication processes involved in developing, maintaining,
and dissolving relationships, how communication impacts
partners and their relationships, and how to improve relational
quality or individual well-being through communication.
COM451HN∆҂:
Relational Communication 4 credits
This writing intensive course focuses on the communication
processes in personal relationships such as romantic
relationships, family relationships, and friendships. Through
quantitative and qualitative methods and other theoretical
perspectives, students in this class examine the expression and
interpretation of messages in everyday personal interactions as
well as significant relational events. Students also explore
communication processes involved in developing, maintaining,
and dissolving relationships, how communication impacts
partners and their relationships, and how to improve relational
quality or individual well-being through communication.
Prerequisite: COM-355.
COM-453: Darkside Communication and
Forgiveness in Relationships
4 credits
In this course, students explore the dark side communication
behaviors that lead to relational dissolution and the
communication behaviors that can facilitate relational repair or
restoration. Students explore the impact of deception, betrayal,
and aggression in more depth and research the process elements
of forgiveness and reconciliation in order that they might be a
redeeming influence in their personal relationships.
COM-455: Nonverbal Communication in
Relationships
4 credits
In this course, students explore the unique impact that nonverbal
communication has in creating and maintaining interpersonal
relationships. Building upon knowledge of interpersonal
communication gained in previous courses, students in this
course dive deeper into how nonverbal choices influence
intimacy, self-disclosure, relational satisfaction and maintenance,
conflict resolution, and a range of other interpersonal topics of
current research in order to become more effective
communicators in their close personal relationships. Prerequisite:
COM-100.
COM-456҂: Organizational Communication 4 credits
The course covers historical and contemporary organizational
theory and application across organizational contexts of corporate
communication, team/small group communication, and
interpersonal communication. Organizational theory and
application topics, including leadership, are covered within each
major area.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 279 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
COM456HN҂:
Organizational Communication 4 credits
The course covers historical and contemporary organizational
theory and application across organizational contexts of corporate
communication, team/small group communication, and
interpersonal communication. Organizational theory and
application topics, including leadership, are covered within each
major area.
COM-457: Workplace Relationships 4 credits
In this course, students learn what it takes to build healthy
relationships in the workplace. Students investigate the role of
motivation, emotional intelligence, diversity, and ethical behavior
in promoting effectiveness at work. The class focuses on
“people” skills and utilizing these skills in an increasingly teambased and customer-oriented workplace. Content provides
opportunities to become more effective in discerning, ethical,
flexible, and perceptive behaviors while working with people.
Special attention is given to the challenges students will face in
interpersonal communication at work and the opportunities that a
workplace environment offers in building social virtuosity.
COM-461: Media Theory 4 credits
This course provides students with an overview of media effects
and the complex relationship of media producers and users
(audiences). Students examine the role of media and media
messages in both traditional and new media platforms, learning
about different forms of storytelling to influence audiences.
COM-463: Broadcasting and Podcasting 4 credits
In this course, students learn the basic knowledge and skills
necessary for creating broadcast and podcast messages. Students
acquire a better understanding of the communication necessary in
the preproduction, production, and postproduction stages of
broadcasting and podcasting. Course materials include a special
focus on auditory and audiovisual presentation elements for
presentation on screen and support roles off camera and off air.
COM-465: Digital Media and Culture 4 credits
This course provides students the opportunity to acquire a deeper
understanding of how digital technologies are transforming our
society and culture. It also offers them the tools to analyze a wide
variety of media texts targeted to multiple audiences while
exploring the cultural issues raised by new communication
technologies.
COM-471: Communication Theory of Political
Campaigns
4 credits
Through an examination of relevant philosophical theories,
students examine the concept of power and how it influences
political communication strategies. Students learn how to apply
theories to current political situations.
COM-472: Training and Development 4 credits
This course is designed to help students develop an
understanding of training and development in an organizational
setting with a particular focus on teaching communication skills
and learning the art and science of designing, developing,
delivering, and evaluating training and development programs.
Training and development as a career field is a significant focus.
Prerequisite: COM-355.
COM-473: Political Address 4 credits
In this course, students learn how to create and transmit messages
designed for a political campaign. Students, either as a future
candidate or speechwriter, analyze and create political addresses,
speak and debate with limited preparation, and respond to
different crisis that arise in campaigns.
COM-475: Communication Campaigns 4 credits
Communication campaigns use a myriad of persuasive strategies
to reach a specified audience. This course emphasizes the
theoretical art of persuasion and strategic applications in
communication campaigns. Students analyze a variety of social,
political, environmental, health, and marketing campaigns.
Additionally, students design and institute a communication
campaign of their choosing. Prerequisite: COM-355.
COM-477: Political Campaign Management 4 credits
In this course, students learn how to successfully manage a
political campaign office. Through examination of group
dynamics and management techniques, students gain practical
skills such as analyzing community demographics, appropriately
communicating, and adapting to the community.
COM-490: Communication Capstone 4 credits
This course includes a culminating reflection and collection of
integral works from students' time in the major. Students engage
in research specific to their career or graduate school goals and
develop a project that displays what they have learned while in
the program. Students are exposed to practitioners in the
communication field. Students are taught how to effectively
communicate their research and develop other skills that support
a successful transition into the workforce or graduate school.
Prerequisite: COM-333, COM-355.
COM-496: Special Topics in Communication 4 credits
In this course, students explore contemporary issues in
communication theory, research, and practice. It features subjects
of importance in communications that involve research, reading,
presentations, and discussions in a seminar format. Featured
subjects could be culture, mass media, interpersonal
relationships, business, politics, faith, or such other subjects that
invite scholarly communication inquiry and serious, focused
discussion.
COM-500: Relationships in the Workplace 4 credits
This course focuses on theories of interpersonal communication
and their application in a variety of professional contexts. The
course builds upon a foundation of relational communication
theories to address problems that arise in workplace relationships,
including leadership communication, managing emotions at
work, working in groups, and becoming social influencers. The
course builds skills in direct and indirect messaging, listening,
managing perceptions and workplace identity, negotiating
conflict, and more.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 280 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
COM-505: Organizations, Culture, and Society 4 credits
This course covers theoretical approaches to organizational
culture; the processes by which organizations, create, manage,
and modify organizational culture; and the ways in which
organizational culture is communicated to both internal and
external audiences. The course also investigates organizations’
larger relationships with society through examining corporate
social responsibility, public policy, and ethics and by considering
how organizations manage these spheres of influence and weigh
business decisions in the larger context of the collective
community in which organizations operate.
COM-510: Strategic Communication 4 credits
This course focuses on the concepts and theories of strategic
communication and their relevance for constructing effective and
ethical organizational messages for diverse audiences. The course
prepares communicators to make organizational messages
meaningful to stakeholders within organizations as well as
stakeholders outside organizations. Through an emphasis on realworld applications, students learn how to ethically and effectively
persuade through carefully crafted, contextually sensitive
messages. The course does so by examining principles and
theories of argumentation, persuasion, and behavior change.
Students practice skills associated with these concepts as they
apply to future career contexts.
COM-515: Training, Learning and Pedagogy 4 credits
This course emphasizes principles of pedagogy and student
learning in the context of communication studies. Students are
encouraged to apply education frameworks and praxis-based
training to a communication classroom. Through an emphasis on
real-world organizational development, traditional theories of
student comprehension, and modern pedagogy, this course
prepares students to teach a diverse and eclectic range of
communication courses.
COM-520: Media Literacy 4 credits
Students in this course learn the underlying theories,
methodologies, and effects of media consumption. This course
emphasizes the role and influence of television, radio, social
media, internet blogs and websites, and other media outlets on a
globalized, interconnected world. The course builds on these
concepts by encouraging students to critically evaluate everpresent media messages through applied projects and group
work.
COM-525: Organizational Communication 4 credits
This course investigates the interactions between organizational
structure and communication within organizations. Theoretical
and methodological analyses are emphasized. Specifically,
students in the course examine how discourse, meanings,
symbols, and information flow in organizational context.
Computer Science (CST)
CST-105: Computer Programming I 4 credits
This course introduces the fundamental concepts and syntax of
the Java programming language. The course focuses on objectoriented techniques in Java with an emphasis on problem solving
and fundamental algorithms.
CST-111: Introduction to Computer Science
and Information Technology
4 credits
This course provides a foundation for programming and problem
solving using computer programming, as well as an introduction
to the academic discipline of IT. Topics include variables,
expressions, functions, control structures, and pervasive IT
themes: IT history, organizational issues, and relationship of IT
to other computing disciplines. The course prepares students for
advanced concepts and techniques in programming and
information technology, including object-oriented design, data
structures, computer systems, and networks. The laboratory
reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the
lecture. Hands-on activities focus on writing code that
implements concepts discussed in lecture and on gaining initial
exposure to common operating systems, enterprise architectures,
and tools commonly used by IT professionals. Prerequisite:
MAT-154 or MAT-261.
CST-120: Introduction to Web Development 4 credits
This course introduces the fundamental concepts and syntax of
the web development languages including HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript. The course focuses on foundation required to build
complex dynamic web applications.
CST-135: Computer Programming II 4 credits
This course focuses on software development using the Java
programming language. The course exposes the relationships
between machine architecture and data organization through
Java-based projects, including algorithmic machines.
Prerequisite: CST-105.
CST-150: Programming in C# I 4 credits
This course provides an introduction to the fundamentals of C#
programming language. The course covers program design and
development, debugging techniques, structured and objectoriented programming and basic GUI elements.
CST-201: Algorithms and Data Structures 4 credits
This course covers classical algorithms and data structures, with
an emphasis on implementation and application in solving realworld computational problems. The course focuses on algorithms
for sorting, searching, string processing, and graphs. Students
learn basic strategies to evaluate divide-and-conquer, recursive
backtracking, and algorithm efficiency. Hands-on activities focus
on writing code that implements concepts and algorithm
implementation techniques. Prerequisite: CST-210 or CST-239 or
CST-135 or CST-250 or CST-227.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 281 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CST-210: Object-Oriented Programming
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course provides an in-depth coverage of object-oriented
programming using most current application programming
methods, languages, and tools. Students will design, create, run,
and debug applications. The course emphasizes the development
of correct, well-documented programs using object-oriented
programming concepts. Prerequisite: CST-111 or CST-105.
CST-211: Programming for Engineering &
Lab
4 credits
This course provides students with the basic concepts of
programming. Students will solve engineering problems by
designing and modularizing solutions with proper use of
functions and objects. They will understand good techniques of
programming style, as well as have the ability to design, code,
debug, and document program solutions. Prerequisite: MAT-261.
CST-213HN҂:Computer Programming III & Lab 4 credits
This course covers user interfaces, event and exception handling,
Java I/O, and the collection framework. Students build
applications using software engineering methods including
design models and implementation/testing strategies, while
learning to assume professional responsibilities. Prerequisite:
CST-115.
CST-215: Digital Logic and Design Lecture &
Lab
4 credits
This in an introductory course in discrete mathematics with
digital logic. Topics covered include Boolean algebra, circuits,
number theory, sequences, recursion, sets, functions, and
counting. An emphasis will be placed on writing computer
programs that address key concepts discussed in lecture.
Prerequisite: MAT-261 or CST-111 or CST-105.
CST-217҂: Principles of Database Design and
Programming Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course provides students with the technical skills required to
design and implement a database solution using a SQL server.
Students use data definition language (DDL) to create and delete
database objects, and data manipulation language (DML) to
access and manipulate those objects. Students gain hands-on
experience with database design, data normalization, SQL subqueries, creating and using views, understanding and working
with data dictionaries, and loading and unloading databases. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on writing
code that implements concepts discussed in the lecture course,
specifically creating databases and SQL queries. Prerequisite:
CST-105.
CST-217HN҂:Principles of Database Design and
Programming Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course provides students with the technical skills required to
design and implement a database solution using a SQL server.
Students use data definition language (DDL) to create and delete
database objects, and data manipulation language (DML) to
access and manipulate those objects. Students gain hands-on
experience with database design, data normalization, SQL subqueries, creating and using views, understanding and working
with data dictionaries, and loading and unloading databases. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on writing
code that implements concepts discussed in the lecture course,
specifically creating databases and SQL queries. Prerequisite:
CST-110 or CST-111.
CST-221҂: Operating Systems Concepts 4 credits
This course is an introduction to UNIX-derived open-source
operating systems. Students explore the history and development
trends in open-source OS. The course covers the file system, user
commands and utilities, graphical user interfaces, editors, manual
pages, and shells. Prerequisite: CST-135 or CST-239.
CST-227N: Enterprise Applications
Programming II
4 credits
This course combines coverage of advanced features of the C#
programming language with building complex enterprise
applications. Students acquire advanced techniques in managing
program flow, the application lifecycle, security, and data access.
Prerequisite: CST-117N.
CST-235: Computer Programming III 4 credits
This course covers user interfaces, event and exception handling,
Java I/O, and the collection framework. Students build
applications using software engineering methods including
design models and implementation/testing strategies, while
learning to assume professional responsibilities. Prerequisite:
CST-135.
CST-235HN҂:Computer Programming III 4 credits
This course covers user interfaces, event and exception handling,
Java I/O, and the collection framework. Students build
applications using software engineering methods including
design models and implementation/testing strategies, while
learning to assume professional responsibilities. Prerequisite:
CST-135.
CST-236: Database Application
Programming II
4 credits
This course focuses on the development of dynamic web
applications using frameworks such as PHP and Python to
interact with MySQL and web servers. Students learn to design,
prototype, and deploy dynamic, database-driven websites with
basic security layers. Prerequisite: CST-126.
CST-239: Programming in Java II 4 credits
This course focuses on software development using the Java
programming language. The course focuses on advanced objectoriented techniques in Java along with advanced topics including
file I/O, generics, collections, multi-threading, networking, and
unit testing. Prerequisite: CST-105.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 282 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CST-239XV: Programming in Java II 4 credits
This course focuses on software development using the Java
programming language. The course focuses on advanced objectoriented techniques in Java along with advanced topics including
file I/O, generics, collections, multi-threading, networking, and
unit testing. Prerequisite: CST-105.
CST-247N: Enterprise Applications
Programming III
4 credits
This course focuses on the development of dynamic web
applications using ASP.NET and C#. Students employ test-driven
programming methodologies to develop secure, highperformance, database driven applications. Prerequisite: CST227N.
CST-250: Programming in C# II 4 credits
This course combines coverage of advanced features of the C#
programming language with building complex desktop
applications. Students acquire advanced techniques in managing
program flow, the application lifecycle, security, and data access.
Prerequisite: CST-150 or CST-117.
CST-256: Database Application
Programming III
4 credits
This course focuses on the design and implementation of
complex, secure, optimized, and scalable MySQL databases.
Students develop high performance database applications using
frameworks such as PHP and Python. Prerequisite: CST-236.
CST-301: Principles of Programming
Languages Lecture and Lab
4 credits
This course introduces the syntax and semantics of programming
languages, program construction and software design. Lab
activities will focus on analyzing the characteristics of contextfree languages and solving a variety of languages construction
challenges. Prerequisite: CST-201, CST-307.
CST-305҂: Principles of Modeling and
Simulation Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course covers applications of differential equations in
modeling and simulation. Students use mathematical models for
continuous and discrete simulation, and develop applications for
complex systems across a variety of domains. Students learn how
to represent a system by a model and then execute the model to
generate and statistically analyze data. The laboratory reinforces
and expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture.
Hands-on activities focus on writing code that implements
differential equation based modeling algorithms and visual
simulations. Prerequisite: CST-201, CST-215, MAT-264.
CST-307: Introduction to Computer
Architecture Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course introduces current trends in computer architecture
with a focus on performance measurement, instruction sets,
computer arithmetic, design and control of a data path,
pipelining, memory hierarchies, input and output, and a brief
introduction to multiprocessors. The laboratory reinforces and
expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture course.
Hands-on activities focus on writing assembly language code that
implements concepts discussed in the lecture course, focusing on
registers, processes, threads, and I/O management. Prerequisites:
(CST-210 and CST-215), or EEE-315.
CST-310: Computer Graphics Lecture & Lab 4 credits
This course covers 2D and 3D concepts, algorithms, and
implementation methods using shader-based programming. Main
topics covered include coordinate systems, transformations,
material simulation, and animation. The laboratory reinforces and
expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Handson activities focus on writing vertex shaders and fragment
shaders to implement light equations for coloring effects,
textures, materials, and animation. Prerequisites: CST-201,
MAT-262, and MAT-345.
CST-315: Operating Systems Lecture & Lab 4 credits
This course explains the concepts, structure, and mechanisms of
modern operating systems. The course covers computational
resources, such as memory, processors, networks, security, and
how the programming languages, architectures, and operating
systems interact. The laboratory reinforces and expands learning
of principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus
on writing a shell that implements process management, file
management, and I/O management. Prerequisite: CST-307.
CST-320∆҂: Human-Computer Interaction and
Communication Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course reviews the basic principles, tools, and techniques
used in computer applications that enable communication,
visualization, access to information, learning and entertainment.
Students learn the methods of designing, implementing and
evaluating techniques for effective communication in a technical,
business, education or entertainment context. The laboratory
reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the
lecture. Hands-on activities focus on experiencing and
implementing concepts discussed in the lecture. Students create
applications that communicate ideas efficiently and are easy to
use. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisites: CST-201,
MAT-262, and (CST-217 or CST-341).
CST-321: Operating Systems Fundamentals 4 credits
This course is an introduction to UNIX-derived open-source
operating systems. Students explore the history and development
trends in open-source OS. The course covers the file system, user
commands and utilities, graphical user interfaces, editors, manual
pages, and shells. Prerequisite: CST-239 or CST-135 or CST-250
or CST-227.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 283 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CST-323: Cloud Computing 4 credits
This course examines cloud computing and its transformative
impact on the IT industry. Students develop applications using a
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model. The course examines the
most important APIs used in leading industry cloud service
providers. Students will learn how to use the cloud as the
infrastructure for existing and new services. Prerequisite: CST339.
CST-326∆: Written and Verbal
Communication for Software
Development
4 credits
This course focuses on gathering User Stories and decomposing
them into a requirements document, design spec, and technically
managing activities associated with software development.
Topics cover the managerial aspect of the software development
life cycle, delivery, and integration. Hands-on activities focus on
communication using professional Agile-based project
management software to implement a system for planning,
tracking, and auditing the use of resources within the context of a
software project. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisite:
CST-239 or CST-135 or CST-250 or CST-227.
CST-339: Programming in Java III 4 credits
This course focuses on the development of dynamic web
applications using the Spring framework and the Java
programming language. Students employ design and
programming methodologies to develop secure, highperformance, database driven applications. Prerequisite: CST-239
or CST-135.
CST-341҂: Open Source Computing 4 credits
This course covers the concepts, tools, and frameworks of Open
Source software development. Using open source operating
systems like Linux, students develop an acquaintance with
compilers, scripting languages, frameworks, build tools, APIs,
version control software, and their licensing constraints. Students
also learn how to participate in and contribute to open-source
projects. Prerequisite: CST-135 or CST-235.
CST-341HN҂:Open Source Computing 4 credits
This course covers the concepts, tools, and frameworks of Open
Source software development. Using open source operating
systems like Linux, students develop an acquaintance with
compilers, scripting languages, frameworks, build tools, APIs,
version control software, and their licensing constraints. Students
also learn how to participate in and contribute to open-source
projects. Prerequisite: CST-135 or CST-235.
CST-345҂
: Database Design & Development 4 credits
This course provides students with the technical skills required to
design and implement a database solution using both relational
and non-relational databases. Students use data definition
language (DDL) to create and delete database objects, and data
manipulation language (DML) to access and manipulate those
objects. Students gain hands-on experience with database design,
data normalization, SQL sub-queries, creating and using views,
understanding and working with data dictionaries, and loading
and unloading databases. The laboratory reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on
activities focus on writing code that implements concepts
discussed in the lecture course, specifically creating databases
and SQL queries. Prerequisite: CST-105 or CST-150.
CST-350: Programming in C# III 4 credits
This course focuses on the development of dynamic web
applications using the ASP.NET framework and the C#
programming language. Students employ design and
programming methodologies to develop secure, highperformance, database driven applications. Prerequisite: CST-250
or CST-227.
CST-361: Design Patterns in Java 4 credits
This course builds upon prior foundations in computer
programming by presenting advanced concepts and techniques
for improving new code and refactor existing code for simplicity,
manageability, and performance. Students expand their skills in
object oriented analysis and design, and learn to apply classical
design patterns to a variety of object oriented programming
challenge. Prerequisite: CST-135.
CST-361HN҂:Design Patterns in Java 4 credits
This course builds upon prior foundations in computer
programming by presenting advanced concepts and techniques
for improving new code and refactor existing code for simplicity,
manageability, and performance. Students expand their skills in
object oriented analysis and design, and learn to apply classical
design patterns to a variety of object oriented programming
challenge. Prerequisite: CST-235.
CST-381: Web Application Development 4 credits
Using current development trends, students examine several
front-end and back-end frameworks used to build web
applications. Students learn how to program these modern
frameworks, as well as how to integrate them using traditional
enterprise technologies. Prerequisites: CST-235 or CST-247 or
CST-256 and CST-341. Prerequisites: CST-235 or CST-247 or
CST-256 and CST-341.
CST-391: JavaScript Web Application
Development
4 credits
Using current development trends, students examine several
front-end and back-end frameworks used to build web
applications. Students learn how to program these modern
frameworks, as well as how to integrate them using traditional
enterprise technologies. Prerequisites: CST-120 and (CST-239 or
CST-135) and (CST-345 or CST-236).
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 284 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CST-403: Computer Science Internship I 2 credits
The optional internship provides students the opportunity to work
as practitioners within their field and to practice principles
learned in their major area of study by working in an outside
organization under the supervision of a professional. The
internship enables students and organizations to benefit from
real-world application of classroom instruction. The internship
can substitute for one of the following: STG-451. Prerequisite:
Permission of the Director of the Internship Program.
CST-404: Computer Science Internship II 2 credits
The optional internship provides students the opportunity to work
as practitioners within their field and to practice principles
learned in their major area of study by working in an outside
organization under the supervision of a professional. The
internship enables students and organizations to benefit from
real-world application of classroom instruction. The internship
can substitute for one of the following: STG-452. Prerequisite:
Permission of the Director of the Internship Program.
CST-405: Principles of Compiler Design
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course reviews the concepts and tools used in the
development of compilers. Students synthesize topics covered in
previous courses: formal languages, data structures, and
computer architecture. The course reinforces the principles of
software engineering and development through a complete cycle
of building a working compiler. The laboratory reinforces and
expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Handson activities focus on writing a compiler including a lexer, parser,
semantic analyzer, code generator, and optimizer. Prerequisites:
CST-301 and MAT-374.
CST-407: Application Security Foundations 4 credits
This course examines security principles for application
developers. The course also examines common security
vulnerabilities found in modern dynamic web applications, secure
programming practices, and how to avoid and illuminate the
common security vulnerabilities. Prerequisite: CST-350 or CST247 or CST-339 or CST-341 or CST-235 or CST-391.
CST-410҂: Game Design and Game Play
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course covers conceptual models for game design. Students
analyze various computer games and develop an understanding of
game concepts like history, genres, storylines, gameplay elements
and challenges, and the design process. Students survey several
modern tools and technologies used to create games. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on creating
game storyboards, designing game levels with increasing
complexity, and representations of real life phenomena and
processes. Prerequisite: CST-320.
CST-410HN҂:Game Design and Game Play
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course covers conceptual models for game design. Students
analyze various computer games and develop and understanding
of game concepts like history, genres, storylines, gameplay
elements and challenges, and the design process. Students survey
several modern tools and technologies used to create games. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on creating
game storyboards, designing game levels with increasing
complexity, and representations of real life phenomena and
processes. Prerequisites: CST-305, CST-310, CST-320, and
MAT-374.
CST-415: AI in Games and Simulations
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
The course introduces basic concepts of AI in the gaming context
such as finite state machines, fuzzy logic, architectures, planning,
and search. Students will work with implementations of common
game AI algorithms for behaviors such as path finding, behavior
selection, and learning. The laboratory reinforces and expands
learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on
activities focus on implementing algorithms for flocking, A* path
finding, decision trees, and deterministic finite state machines.
Prerequisites: MAT-345, and MAT-374, CST-320.
CST-416҂: Mobile Game Development Lecture
& Lab
4 credits
This course explores iterative, rapid application development
techniques, and cross platform development environments, to
produce and publish a game for a mobile operating systems.
Topics covered include performance profiling and optimization,
hardware acceleration, designing for small screens, and
interaction via mobile device specific inputs. The laboratory
reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the
lecture. Hands-on activities focus on creating a complete
application for a mobile device and publish it on an online store.
The application will utilize the key APIs provided on the device,
including location awareness, motion detection, networking, and
tactile user interface. Prerequisite: CST-320, MAT-374.
CST-416HN҂:Mobile Game Development Lecture
& Lab
4 credits
This course explores iterative, rapid application development
techniques, and cross platform development environments, to
produce and publish a game for a mobile operating systems.
Topics covered include performance profiling and optimization,
hardware acceleration, designing for small screens, and
interaction via mobile device specific inputs. The laboratory
reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the
lecture. Hands-on activities focus on creating a complete
application for a mobile device and publish it on an online store.
The application will utilize the key APIs provided on the device,
including location awareness, motion detection, networking, and
tactile user interface. Prerequisite: CST-305, CST-310, CST-320,
MAT-374.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 285 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CST-424: Research Methods 4 credits
This course prepares students to conduct research across a range
of IT disciplines. The course introduces students to research
methods, research design, research ethics, and techniques of data
collection and analysis appropriate to IT. While interpreting
others' research, students acquire the skills and knowledge to
conduct and communicate their own research. Prerequisite:
MAT-134 or MAT-154.
CST-425: Very Large Information Systems
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course introduces modern theories of machine learning and
design & implementation models for large scale quantitative,
image, and text information systems. The machine learning and
information retrieval methodologies include Boolean, vector
space, probabilistic, inference net, and language modeling.
Students will acquire hands-on experience by implementing
models such as clustering algorithms, automatic text
categorization, and experimental evaluation. As an introduction
to data science theory and techniques, students will experiment
with supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms, intelligent
text summarization, topic detection, tagging, and tracking. The
laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on
implementing techniques for efficiently managing and
manipulating very large data sets and build machine learning
models. Prerequisites: MAT-374 and (CST-217 or SYM-400)
and MAT-345.
CST-435҂: Search Engines and Data Mining
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course provides a comprehensive introduction to neural
networks and deep learning. The location, retrieval, and
conversion of raw data into usable information is accomplished
by implementing a variety of neural network models. Students
implement deep learning algorithms for organizing and searching
very large data collections, like those typically found in
enterprise databases and on websites. Students use clustering and
categorization to generate various information taxonomies based
on document ranking, evaluation, and classification. The
laboratory reinforces and expands deep learning principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on using
neural networks for performing data mining on a large business
database and extracting trends and actionable information.
Prerequisites: MAT-374 and (CST-217 or SYM-400)and MAT345.
CST-435HN҂:Search Engines and Data Mining
Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course provides a comprehensive introduction to neural
networks and deep learning. The location, retrieval, and
conversion of raw data into usable information is accomplished
by implementing a variety of neural network models. Students
implement deep learning algorithms for organizing and searching
very large data collections, like those typically found in
enterprise databases and on websites. Students use clustering and
categorization to generate various information taxonomies based
on document ranking, evaluation, and classification. The
laboratory reinforces and expands deep learning principles
introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on using
neural networks for performing data mining on a large business
database and extracting trends and actionable information.
Prerequisites: MAT-374 and (CST-217 or SYM-400) and MAT345.
CST-440҂: Analytics for Dynamic Social
Networks Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course focuses on very large web-based sources of
information such as social networks and semantic networks.
Students analyze dynamic data and trends, connections (links),
and patterns of self-organization. Students then utilize intelligent
inferential techniques to interpret patterns in the collected
information and translate them into actionable items. Hands-on
experiences include marketing, organizational structure, security,
and human analytics. Prerequisites: MAT-374 and (CST-217 or
SYM-400) and MAT-345.
CST-440HN҂:Analytics for Dynamic Social
Networks Lecture & Lab
4 credits
This course focuses on very large web-based sources of
information such as social networks and semantic networks.
Students analyze dynamic data and trends, connections (links),
and patterns of self-organization. Students then utilize intelligent
inferential techniques to interpret patterns in the collected
information and translate them into actionable items. Hands-on
experiences include marketing, organizational structure, security,
and human analytics. Prerequisite: CST-425.
CST-451∆҂Ω: Senior Project I 2 credits
The first capstone course provides students the opportunity to
work in teams to tackle real world applied research and design
projects in their chosen area of interest. Students develop a
project proposal, conduct a feasibility study, learn to protect
intellectual property, develop teamwork skills, budgets, and a
schedule for completing the project. Students conduct extensive
research, integrate information from multiple sources, and work
with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and revisions.
Students use this course to further develop technical writing and
business presentation skills. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisite: CST-339 or CST-341 or CST-235 or CST-350 or
CST-247 or CST-391.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 286 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CST-451HN∆҂: Senior Project I 2 credits
The first capstone course provides students the opportunity to
work in teams to tackle real world applied research and design
projects in their chosen area of interest. Students develop a
project proposal, conduct a feasibility study, learn to protect
intellectual property, develop teamwork skills, budgets, and a
schedule for completing the project. Students conduct extensive
research, integrate information from multiple sources, and work
with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and revisions.
Students use this course to further develop technical writing and
business presentation skills. This is a writing intensive course.
Prerequisite: CST-410 or CST-424.
CST-452∆҂Ω: Senior Project II 2 credits
The second capstone course provides students the opportunity to
implement and present the applied research project designed,
planned, and started in the first capstone course. The capstone
project is a culmination of the learning experiences while a
student in the Computer Science program. Students conduct
extensive research, integrate information from multiple sources,
and work with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and
revision. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisite:
Successful completion of CST-451 with a grade of C or better.
CST-452HN∆҂: Senior Project II 2 credits
The second capstone course provides students the opportunity to
implement and present the applied research project designed,
planned, and started in the first capstone course. The capstone
project is a culmination of the learning experiences while a
student in the Computer Science program. Students conduct
extensive research, integrate information from multiple sources,
and work with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and
revision. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisite:
Successful completion of CST-451 with a grade of C or better.
CST-461: Current Trends in Computer
Science Lecture and Lab
4 credits
This course surveys current advances in computer science.
Topics vary by semester and include current and emerging
practice in computer science. Lab activities will focus on handson projects with a variety of technologies, devices, and
programming languages. Prerequisite: CST-315, CST-301.
CST-520: Design and Analysis of Algorithms 4 credits
The course covers the theoretical fundamentals of computing,
and analysis of the inherent capabilities and limitations of
computation. Topics include advanced techniques in formal
algorithm analysis, classical and modern algorithms, P and NP,
polynomial-time reduction, NP-completeness and NP-hardness.
Prerequisite: DSC-510.
CST-530: Advanced Operating Systems 4 credits
This course covers essential concepts in the design and
implementation of advanced modern operating systems. Focus
areas may include distributed systems and computer networks,
interprocess communication, distributed processing, multi-core
processors, sharing and replication of data and files. Prerequisite:
CST-520.
CST-540: Programming Languages 4 credits
This course focuses on theoretical models for advanced
programming paradigms: functional, imperative, concurrent, and
probabilistic programming. Various models of programming
languages and type systems are discussed. Students learn to apply
programming methodology, transformations, and logic.
Prerequisite: DSC-510.
CST-550: Parallel Programming 4 credits
This course introduces programming models and languages for
programming parallel platforms. Additional topics may include
parallel and distributed platforms, parallel and distributed
algorithms, message passing, shared memory, and parallel
programming applications in a variety of domains. Prerequisite:
CST-540.
CST-560: Research Methods in
Computational Sciences
4 credits
This course prepares students for the research process in
computational sciences, while developing an appreciation for the
philosophy and ethics related to how research is conducted.
Students learn how to design experiments, how to test the results
using statistical methods, and communicate the findings.
Prerequisite: DSC-510.
CST-570: Machine Learning for Computer
Science
4 credits
This course covers fundamental techniques in statistical machine
learning, focusing on computational methods for supervised and
unsupervised data analysis. Topics may include classification,
regression, dimensionality reduction, and clustering. Students
will learn and apply a variety of training models and algorithms.
Prerequisite: CST-560.
CST-580: Artificial Intelligence 4 credits
This course covers key areas of AI focusing on theoretical and
practical approaches to designing intelligent systems. Central
themes include search, neural networks, probabilistic modeling,
and game theory. Students explore specific algorithms and
applications in depth, using modern programming paradigms.
Prerequisite: CST-570.
CST-590: Computer Science Capstone
Project
4 credits
Students conceptualize, design, and present an innovative idea,
process, or a product in the field of computer science. Projects
synthesize and apply knowledge from previous courses and
include a scientific report anchored in current theory and
research. Prerequisite: CST-580.
Christian Worldview (CWV)
CWV-101Ω: Christian Worldview 4 credits
A worldview acts like glasses through which one views the
world. In this course, students explore the big questions that
make up a worldview, questions like “Why are we here?” and
“What is my purpose?” Students examine how Christians answer
these questions and work on exploring their own worldviews, as
well as learning how worldview influences one’s perceptions,
decision making, and everyday life.
CWV106HN҂Ω:
Christianity: Story, Theology and
Mission
4 credits
This honors course is an introduction to the Christian worldview
and how it shapes beliefs, identity, values, ethics, and cultural
awareness. The focus of this honors course is to engage students
in discourse about what it means to think and live as a follower of
Christ within a historical, global, and social context. Prerequisite:
Acceptance into the honors program.
CWV-301Ω: Christian Worldview 4 credits
A worldview acts like glasses through which one views the
world. In this course, students explore the big questions that
make up a worldview, questions like “Why are we here?” and
“What is my purpose?” Students examine how Christians answer
these questions and work on exploring their own worldviews, as
well as learning how worldview influences one’s perceptions,
decision making, and everyday life.
CWV-316҂
: Christian Life: The Way of Jesus 4 credits
This course is an advanced exploration of the Christian
worldview that shows how the Christian life provides true
identity, meaning, peace, and joy. Students learn how to
authentically follow Jesus in a way that will transform their lives
through intentional practices and life together in community.
Focus is also placed on human value, human dignity, and ethical
reasoning in academic studies and careers. Prerequisite: CWV101, CWV-301, or CWV-106HN.
Cybersecurity (CYB)
CYB-201: Algorithms and Discrete
Mathematics for Cybersecurity
4 credits
This in an introductory course in algorithm analysis with
applications in discrete mathematics. Topics covered include
complexity analysis, finite logic, Boolean algebra, sets, functions,
counting, finite state machines, automata, regular expressions,
and cryptography. Learners will determine how variability affects
outcomes and assess the suitability of an algorithm to solve a
given problem. Practicum/field experience hours: None.
Algorithms and Discrete Mathematics for Cybersecurity.
Prerequisites: MAT-154 and CST-111 or ITT-111.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 301 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CYB-220: Cyber Law and Privacy in a Digital
Age
4 credits
The Internet Age has introduced myriad legal challenges on a
global level. Students will explore the emerging specialty within
law that is cyber law. Topics will expose the reality that our legal
system has evolved in a physical and visual world, but cyber
space is largely invisible and virtual. Students will learn that past
legal decisions or legal precedence has been important in our
system and reasoning by analogy has been used extensively. In
many cases the laws applied in the physical realm do not translate
equally well into cyber space. This course will discuss the
importance of this area introduce legal issues that need to be
addressed.
CYB-300҂
: Fundamentals in Cybersecurity 4 credits
This course provides a fundamental understanding of the
importance of cybersecurity through a broad range of
cybersecurity topics. The course introduces core concepts and
terminology used in cybersecurity and information systems
security. Students learn concepts related to identifying common
attack vectors, threats, preventive tools, and keeping information
secure as it travels across a network. Students also gain a basic
understanding of how cybersecurity threats and social
engineering impact society.
CYB-320: Malware Analysis 4 credits
In this course students will explore the world of malware through
meticulous analysis and binary reverse engineering techniques.
This is a skill-based course with hands on labs that focus on both
static and dynamic malicious code analysis. Upon successful
completion of this course, students will be able to apply the tools
and methodologies to safely perform analysis on common
malware samples in a control environment. Practicum/field
experience hours: None. Malware Analysis. Prerequisite: ITT310 & ITT-307.
CYB-350: Social Aspects of Cybersecurity 4 credits
This course explores how end users can pose a threat to the
security of an organization by falling victim to even simple traps.
Students will learn that human manipulation creates a whole
school of cybercrime opportunities such as phishing, “watering
hole attacks” and other social engineering tactics. These threats
are directed to the human psyche - not sophisticated malware or
technical vulnerabilities, but rather the psychology and behavior
of people. Students will see that a malicious actor – or “hacker” -
need not be involved; an uneducated or careless employee or an
unwieldly procedure can result in sensitive information leaking
and potentially falling into the hands of an attacker. Prerequisite:
ITT-307.
CYB-420҂: Global Perspectives on Cyber
Warfare
4 credits
This course covers an analysis of Cyber warfare in the 21st
Century and beyond. Cyberspace is a complex environment that
controls every aspect of a country’s Economy, Communication,
and Infrastructure. This course will examine cyber warfare from a
case-study perspective, applying the battlespace doctrine
developed by military cyber operations teams. At the conclusion
of this course students will have a fundamental understanding of
the cyberspace threatscape, ethical challenges, and be able to
strategize and implement cyber warfare operations. Prerequisite:
ITT-340 or SWE-310.
CYB-420HN҂
: Global Perspectives on Cyber
Warfare
4 credits
This course covers an analysis of Cyber warfare in the 21st
Century and beyond. Cyberspace is a complex environment that
controls every aspect of a country’s Economy, Communication,
and Infrastructure. This course will examine cyber warfare from a
case-study perspective, applying the battlespace doctrine
developed by military cyber operations teams. At the conclusion
of this course students will have a fundamental understanding of
the cyberspace threatscape, ethical challenges, and be able to
strategize and implement cyber warfare operations.
Practicum/field experience hours: None. Global Perspectives on
Cyberwarfare. Prerequisite: ITT-340 or SWE-310.
CYB-505: Cyber Warfare and Applications 4 credits
With a brief introduction to cybercrime and cybersecurity, this
course will provide students with an overview of the various
attacks and the countermeasures organizations can use to defend
themselves. Exploring concepts such as defense-in-depth, layered
security, vulnerability assessments, risk management, governance
and compliance, and encryption; students will become familiar
with prevention and protection theories, best practices, and
strategies to securing corporate data (intellectual property). This
course will conclude with an exploration of the various hacker
psychologies and the differences between black-hat, grey-hat,
and white-hat (Hackers with Halos) hackers. Prerequisite: UNV504 or UNV-507.
CYB-515: Enterprise Security Infrastructure
Design
4 credits
This course introduces enterprise infrastructure design; including
hardware, software, policies, and business processes. Emphasis is
placed on integrating security solutions and theories in alignment
with business objectives to achieve sustainability, reliability, and
availability while deterring threats from cyber-attacks. This
course also introduces students to the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework, providing a foundation to formulating a strategy for
cybersecurity program design. Prerequisite: CYB-505.
------------------
∆ Writing intensive course |  Fulfills General Education requirement | ҂ Honors Major Course | Ω Non-Transferable
------------------
Spring 2023 Academic Catalog 302 © 2017 Grand Canyon University. All Rights Reserved.
CYB-525: Technology Implementation of
Security Solutions
4 credits
This course examines the tools and technologies used to secure
an organization’s intellectual property. Students will consider
encryption, hardware security, software vulnerabilities, remote
access technologies, and layered security defense strategies in the
development of secure architectures. A technology-focused
course, students will provide effective solutions around firewalls,
networking, server security, database and website protocols, and
VPN configurations. Prerequisites: CYB-505 and CYB-515.
CYB-535: Policy Management for Security
Solutions
4 credits
This course introduces a policy perspective on security design.
Students will consider cybersecurity frameworks, policies, cyber
law, regulations, and standards in the configuration,
development, and design of an enterprise policy infrastructure. In
addition, students will examine the impact of policy
implementation on enterprise systems and personnel
management. Prerequisite: CYB-505.
CYB-610: Penetration Testing and Risk
Management
4 credits
This intensive hands-on course will provide with students the
experience of working with various cybersecurity technologies
and techniques that hackers and malicious actors use to scan,
identify, and exploit vulnerabilities in an organization. Students
will also formulate strategies of protection from such threats by
identifying risks, countermeasures, security policies, frameworks,
and best practices to align and enhance an organization’s security
posture through the development of a risk management plan.
Prerequisites: CYB-515 and CYB-525.
CYB-630: Enterprise Cyber Law and
Compliance Strategies
4 credits
This course explores the human and enterprise aspects of
cybersecurity management. From information security awareness
to strategic planning; students will begin with the examination of
the ideologies behind cybercrime, where attacks come from and
why, followed by implementation techniques to best align
cybersecurity applications with business objectives. This course
provides a look at the strategies security professionals use to
identify the attack vectors and plan accordingly to secure
information systems using various industry compliances,
regulations, and standards to design and implement cost effective
controls, policies, and training to implement defense-in-depth
techniques. This course ends with an impact analysis of when
security measures fail, which includes legal elements and liability
and ethical issues relating to forensic investigations. Prerequisite:
CYB-535.
CYB-650: Innovation in Security Frameworks 4 credits
This course reinforces the significance, use, and deployment of
security frameworks from a small-to-medium sized business
(SMB) perspective to increase visibility, reduce risk from
malicious activity, improve security posture, and enhance
infrastructure to secure a company’s intellectual property. Using
various controls, policies, best practices, and implementation
guides, students will establish a security framework for an
organization that secures and aligns with an appropriate
regulation (e.g., PCI DSS, HIPAA, SOX, GLBA). Prerequisite:
CYB-535.
CYB-690: Cybersecurity Program
Development
4 credits
This course culminates the entire program by requiring students
to develop a comprehensive cybersecurity program. Evaluating
the legal and ethical challenges; incorporating the policies,
frameworks, and methodologies; and identifying the hardware,
software, and application requirements to secure an
organization’s intellectual property, customer data, and resources.
Students will apply managerial and leadership skills to develop
and communicate an effective cybersecurity program.
Prerequisites: CYB-610, CYB-630, and CYB-650.