// This is a comment. All content on the line is ignored by the interpreter after the "//".
//
// For courses with additional letters after the 3 numbers use the following legend:
// ###-###L = Lab course
// ###-###HN = Honers course.
// If you find additional letters after the course number that are not in the legend,
//  just add it to the list above.


Bachelor of Science in Software Development
    Students who earn the Bachelor of Science in Software Development degree are able to work with web technologies, mobile technologies, and today’s cloud platforms. They attain proficiency in several programming languages and web application frameworks. The technology courses that make up the Software Development degree coursework ensure graduates have a well-rounded understanding of the topics listed below and provide the students with solid skills in communication, teamwork, initiative, self-confidence, and a strong work ethic.
    Degree Requirements 
        Total General Education 34-40 credits
        Total Software Development Major 60 credits
        Total Electives 20-26 credits
        Total Bachelor of Science in Software Development 120 credits
    Software Development Major
        CST-120 Introduction to Web Development 4 credits
        CST-105 Computer Programming I 4 credits
        CST-150 Programming in C# I 4 credits
        CST-239 Programming in Java II 4 credits
        CST-250 Programming in C# II 4 credits
        CST-345 Database Design & Development 4 credits
        CST-321 Operating Systems Fundamentals 4 credits
        CST-201 Algorithms and Data Structures 4 credits
        CST-339 Programming in Java III 4 credits
        CST-350 Programming in C# III 4 credits
        CST-391 JavaScript Web Application Development 4 credits
        CST-323 Cloud Computing 4 credits
        CST-326 Written and Verbal Communication for Software Development 4 credits
        CST-451 Senior Project I 2 credits
        CST-407 Application Security Foundations 4 credits
        CST-452 Senior Project II 2 credits Software Development Major 60 credits

Courses:

    CST-105: 
        Computer Programming I 
        4 credits
        This course introduces the fundamental concepts and syntax of the Java programming language. The course focuses on object oriented techniques in Java with an emphasis on problem solving and fundamental algorithms.

    CST-120: 
        Introduction to Web Development 
        4 credits
        This course introduces the fundamental concepts and syntax of the web development languages including HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The course focuses on foundation required to build complex dynamic web applications.

    CST-135: 
        Computer Programming II 
        4 credits
        This course focuses on software development using the Java programming language. The course exposes the relationships between machine architecture and data organization through Java-based projects, including algorithmic machines.
        Prerequisite: CST-105.

    CST-150: 
        Programming in C# I
        4 credits
        This course provides an introduction to the fundamentals of C# programming language. The course covers program design and development, debugging techniques, structured and object oriented programming and basic GUI elements.

    CST-201: 
        Algorithms and Data Structures 
        4 credits
        This course covers classical algorithms and data structures, with an emphasis on implementation and application in solving real world computational problems. The course focuses on algorithms for sorting, searching, string processing, and graphs. Students learn basic strategies to evaluate divide-and-conquer, recursive backtracking, and algorithm efficiency. Hands-on activities focus on writing code that implements concepts and algorithm implementation techniques. 
        Prerequisite: CST-210, CST-239, CST-135, CST-250 or CST-227.

    CST-210: 
        Object-Oriented Programming Lecture & Lab
        4 credits
        This course provides an in-depth coverage of object-oriented programming using most current application programming methods, languages, and tools. Students will design, create, run, and debug applications. The course emphasizes the development of correct, well-documented programs using object-oriented programming concepts. 
        Prerequisite: CST-111 or CST-105.

    CST-227: 
        Enterprise Applications Programming II
        4 credits
        This course combines coverage of advanced features of the C# programming language with building complex enterprise applications. Students acquire advanced techniques in managing program flow, the application lifecycle, security, and data access.
        Prerequisite: CST-117N.

    CST-235:
        Computer Programming III 
        4 credits
        This course covers user interfaces, event and exception handling, Java I/O, and the collection framework. Students build applications using software engineering methods including design models and implementation/testing strategies, while learning to assume professional responsibilities. 
        Prerequisite: CST-135.

    CST-236: 
        Database Application Programming II
        4 credits
        This course focuses on the development of dynamic web applications using frameworks such as PHP and Python to interact with MySQL and web servers. Students learn to design, prototype, and deploy dynamic, database-driven websites with basic security layers. 
        Prerequisite: CST-126.

    CST-239: 
        Programming in Java II 
        4 credits
        This course focuses on software development using the Java programming language. The course focuses on advanced object oriented techniques in Java along with advanced topics including file I/O, generics, collections, multi-threading, networking, and unit testing. 
        Prerequisite: CST-105.

    CST-247: 
        Enterprise Applications Programming III
        4 credits
        This course focuses on the development of dynamic web applications using ASP.NET and C#. Students employ test-driven programming methodologies to develop secure, high performance, database driven applications. 
        Prerequisite: CST-227.

    CST-250: 
        Programming in C# II 
        4 credits
        This course combines coverage of advanced features of the C# programming language with building complex desktop applications. Students acquire advanced techniques in managing program flow, the application lifecycle, security, and data access.
        Prerequisite: CST-150 or CST-117.

    CST-321: 
        Operating Systems Fundamentals 
        4 credits
        This course is an introduction to UNIX-derived open-source operating systems. Students explore the history and development trends in open-source OS. The course covers the file system, user commands and utilities, graphical user interfaces, editors, manual pages, and shells. 
        Prerequisite: CST-239, CST-135, CST-250 or CST-227.

    CST-323: 
        Cloud Computing 
        4 credits
        This course examines cloud computing and its transformative impact on the IT industry. Students develop applications using a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) model. The course examines the most important APIs used in leading industry cloud service providers. Students will learn how to use the cloud as the infrastructure for existing and new services. 
        Prerequisite: CST-339.

    CST-326: 
        Written and Verbal Communication for Software Development
        4 credits
        This course focuses on gathering User Stories and decomposing them into a requirements document, design spec, and technically managing activities associated with software development. Topics cover the managerial aspect of the software development life cycle, delivery, and integration. Hands-on activities focus on communication using professional Agile-based project management software to implement a system for planning, tracking, and auditing the use of resources within the context of a software project. This is a writing intensive course. 
        Prerequisite: CST-239, CST-135, CST-250 or CST-227.

    CST-339: 
        Programming in Java III 
        4 credits
        This course focuses on the development of dynamic web applications using the Spring framework and the Java programming language. Students employ design and programming methodologies to develop secure, high performance, database driven applications. 
        Prerequisite: CST-239 or CST-135.

    CST-341:
        Open Source Computing 
        4 credits
        This course covers the concepts, tools, and frameworks of Open Source software development. Using open source operating systems like Linux, students develop an acquaintance with compilers, scripting languages, frameworks, build tools, APIs, version control software, and their licensing constraints. Students also learn how to participate in and contribute to open-source projects. 
        Prerequisite: CST-135 or CST-235.

    CST-345: 
        Database Design & Development
        4 credits
        This course provides students with the technical skills required to design and implement a database solution using both relational and non-relational databases. Students use data definition language (DDL) to create and delete database objects, and data manipulation language (DML) to access and manipulate those objects. Students gain hands-on experience with database design, data normalization, SQL sub-queries, creating and using views, understanding and working with data dictionaries, and loading and unloading databases. The laboratory reinforces and expands learning of principles introduced in the lecture. Hands-on activities focus on writing code that implements concepts discussed in the lecture course, specifically creating databases and SQL queries. 
        Prerequisite: CST-105 or CST-150.

    CST-350: 
        Programming in C# III 
        4 credits
        This course focuses on the development of dynamic web applications using the ASP.NET framework and the C# programming language. Students employ design and programming methodologies to develop secure, high performance, database driven applications. 
        Prerequisite: CST-250 or CST-227.

    CST-391: 
        JavaScript Web Application Development
        4 credits
        Using current development trends, students examine several front-end and back-end frameworks used to build web applications. Students learn how to program these modern frameworks, as well as how to integrate them using traditional enterprise technologies. 
        Prerequisites: CST-120, CST-135 and CST-236.

    CST-407: 
        Application Security Foundations 
        4 credits
        This course examines security principles for application developers. The course also examines common security vulnerabilities found in modern dynamic web applications, secure programming practices, and how to avoid and illuminate the common security vulnerabilities. 
        Prerequisite: CST-350, CST-247, CST-339, CST-341, CST-235 or CST-391.

    CST-451: 
        Senior Project I 
        2 credits
        The first capstone course provides students the opportunity to work in teams to tackle real world applied research and design projects in their chosen area of interest. Students develop a project proposal, conduct a feasibility study, learn to protect intellectual property, develop teamwork skills, budgets, and a schedule for completing the project. Students conduct extensive research, integrate information from multiple sources, and work with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and revisions. Students use this course to further develop technical writing and business presentation skills. This is a writing intensive course.
        Prerequisite: CST-339, CST-341, CST-235, CST-350, CST-247 or CST-391.

    CST-452: 
        Senior Project II 
        2 credits
        The second capstone course provides students the opportunity to implement and present the applied research project designed, planned, and started in the first capstone course. The capstone project is a culmination of the learning experiences while a student in the Computer Science program. Students conduct extensive research, integrate information from multiple sources, and work with a mentor through multiple cycles of feedback and revision. This is a writing intensive course.  Prerequisite: Successful completion of CST-451 with a grade of C or better.
        Prerequisite: CST-451.

